This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Claire Bush:

Mr President, it is clearly important for the European Parliament that we have this debate.
We believe that it is about time that the European Union took a strong political and moral stand against that iniquitous regime, the SLORC in Rangoon.
I know that Mrs Jensen, my colleague, will talk about James Nicholls and the fact that Mr Spring, the Foreign Minister from Ireland, has still failed to have any decent reply from the Burmese about exactly what happened in connection with James Nicholls death in prison in Rangoon.

I would like to ask the Commissioner responsible tonight what we will do if the SLORC continue to deny Aung Sang Suu Kyis latest request for a dialogue with the SLORC.
What will the Commission do if they should harm her or rearrest Aung Sang Suu Kyi?
What will the Commission do?
What will the European Union do when it is too late for us to act on these matters?
How many times, Commissioner, do we have to listen to Aung Sang Suu Kyi, the democratic leader of Burma, ask the international community and tell the international community that only isolation and only sanctions will affect the SLORC.

They deserve the same odium, the same treatment as many of us demanded against apartheid South Africa.
It is unacceptable and disingenuous to claim that dialogue or engagement is appropriate with any ruthless regime like the SLORC.
They are intent on subjugating and repressing the people of Burma.
The United States, as Mrs MaijWeggen has said, has had the CohenFeinstein amendment which says that the United States is prepared to take strong measures in relation to sanctions and, indeed, visa restrictions against Burma.
We have no such action or statement from the European Union.

We cannot do business, we cannot appease, we cannot reach any consensus with a government which uses children as slaves, a government which represses democracy and refuses to discuss any kind of political settlement of ethnic groups.
 80 ,  000  people from the Shan states and from the Karenni states have now been forcibly displaced, they have been abused and they feel abandoned by the whole world.

We talk about the actions of oil companies, Unical and Total are involved in Burma and we understand that they are responsible for violations of human rights and for the fact that people have been forcibly removed from their land in Burma.
It is my understanding, Commissioner, that current proposals, which have been made by the EU in relation to Burma are quite frankly very unlikely to have any impact whatsoever on that regime.
These restrictions will not make the slightest different to the SLORC.
I do not exactly see SLORC members queueing up for entry into the European Union.
It will make absolutely no difference to them at all.

I see no reason why, on the clear evidence that the Commission has heard, GSP should not now be withdrawn as quickly as possible.
Last time I questioned Commissioner Marin in this Parliament.
He gave me the categorical assurance that the GSP access would be withdrawn in November.
He told me categorically.
Is this still the Commissions view?
Is Commissioner Marin still prepared to say this?

I would like to ask, will Commissioner Marin use the influence he clearly has to pressurize the ASEAN countries to play a more constructive role?
Will the Commission be prepared to send envoys to the ASEAN countries and to Japan to discuss the options which we face?
But in order to do that, in order to discuss the options it is essential for the Commission to go there with the threat of impending sanctions against the regime.
We have to learn from the mistakes the United States Government made.
We must not go there making demands, we must go there in order to try to have some results.
We need to know at what cost it was to South Africa that the developed world ignored the pleas of Nelson Mandela and the people of South Africa.
Let us remember that all that is required for the triumph of evil is that the good men and women do nothing.
We should act to do something before it is too late.
I have to ask, is the European Community ready to act swiftly before things deteriorate in Burma?