This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Christoph MacLeod:

Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for her report and largely we can agree with most of the contents.

Before I refer directly to the issues that are raised in the report, I think it is worth noting at this point that back in  1989  I wrote the Parliaments first report on stage one of EMU.
At that stage barely any Europeans were interested in the process of economic and monetary union.
Today, we are actually talking about the design and the content of the coins because they are going to be issued in the very near future.
It is a sign of the enormous progress that the European Union has made that we are now actually dealing with the practicalities of the single currency and not simply talking about the theory of economic and monetary union.

As far as the report is concerned directly, can I say that I agree with the rapporteurs point regarding the nickel content of the coins.
I hope that the Commission will urge the Ecofin Council to look at this question again.
There is an enormous lobby within the European Union now because of the health effects of nickel and the possibility that this will be introduced into coins used widely around the European Union.
It would be rather inconsistent, since we only recently passed a report in this Parliament calling for nickel to be removed from jewellery and from other things that come into contact with people, to find that we are accepting large amounts of nickel in our new currency.
The consumer lobby on this issue really needs to be listened to.
It is not only the Scandinavian countries where there is a concern.
Throughout the European Union there are consumer organizations that are representing public opinion here.
If someone becomes sensitized to nickel, then, of course, if they ever come into contact with it subsequently, they can be subject to a very severe reaction.
I would ask Commissioner Kinnock to take this matter back and to ask the Commission to look at this question again.
We have seen the scientific evidence and clearly there is room there for worry.
We need to readdress this question.

With regard to the number of coins and the dimensions of the coins: again I would support the rapporteur.
We want to try and rationalize the number of coins that we are using and indeed in many of our Member States we are reducing the number of coins in terms of their denominations.
It seems rather strange, that as we move to the single currency with the possibility of smart cards and electronic money and so forth, that we are proposing the rather backward step of having eight separate coins in circulation.
So I would, again, ask the Commission to look at this question.

In relation to the dimensions; we have had an enormous lobby in this European Parliament from the organizations representing the blind, who want to be able to clearly differentiate between one denomination of a coin and another.
I really do not believe that the Finance Ministers have taken this question on board and I would ask the Commission and the Council to look at this matter again.

Finally, I want to come to the question of national symbols on the single currency.
We are launching this single currency on  1  January  1999 , the coins and notes will be in circulation in  2002 .
This is not simply a calculation, it is not simply a step that is being done by bankers, this is a step that is being taken by the citizens of the European Union.
It is absolutely crucial that in the initial stages of this enormous historic step, they feel comfortable and familiar with the currency that they are using.
I have to say that I think it is crazy for this House to consider removing the possibility of national symbols on the new currency when it is issued.
For that reason, we in the Socialist Group will be opposing the paragraphs within the report which call for a harmonized coin for the whole of the European Union and we will support Mrs Peijs amendment which calls for national symbols to be possible on these coins.

We, in this House, having debated economic and monetary union for many years now, should not underestimate the level of public feeling, not only in countries like the United Kingdom but in other countries around the European Union.
We want this very much to be a peoples initiative and we want them to be comfortable with the currency, with the coins and notes that they have in their pocket.
The possibility, if they so wish, to have national representation on those coins and notes is an extremely important step to achieve public acceptability in the early stages.

We largely support this report; it is an important step and we hope the Commission and the Council will listen to some of the criticisms that we have made.
We should not try to harmonize things for the sake of harmonization.
We have to recognize with the single currency that we still want some national diversity.