This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by James LaCourt:

I would like to thank my colleague Dr Langen for all the hard work that he has put in on this issue and I think I can say on behalf of the Socialist Group that there has been a genuine bipartisan approach to this subject.

The effects of implementing the proposals contained in this Commission document will be immense.
Every company which deals with contracting entities in any of the utilities sectors will have to adjust its working practices to conform with the rules that we impose upon them.
Before we do that, we have a duty to ensure that those rules are necessary, will work to enhance European businesss rights and opportunities, and will serve their part in the opening up of global markets in our fight to improve employment and to create a level playing field.

Even though this is an internal directive, it cannot be taken in isolation, just as the EU cannot be taken in isolation.
The fact that these proposals are being introduced to eliminate disadvantages created by the implementation of the GPA demonstrates how we are all intertwined.
So to evaluate these proposals as a whole, we should look at what we are competing against, to see what practice, or what common practice there is in the marketplace.

When we look at our major rivals  firstly Japan  the Japanese are making no attempt to draw up similar legislation to that put forward by the Commission.
The United States  not only have the United States failed to introduce internal legislation to bring their home market in line with the GPA they have not even introduced the GPA itself, and what is more they do not have any intention of so doing before the election of this year, if at all.
Secondly with regard to the United States: not only have they failed to introduce internal legislation to bring their market into line with the GPA, they have failed to eliminate the Buy American Act.
More than two years ago they promised to do this, yet there has been no action.
They have had rulings in their courts that no foreign legislation can take precedent over domestic legislation, which legitimizes their protectionist trade regime.
Now with the HelmsBurton Bill, we even have the American Government taking nonAmerican companies to court over trading with Cuba.
We do not condone this; we call on the Commission to actively pursue these matters and insist on the full implementation of all agreements signed at international level.

We want internal legislation to eliminate disadvantages, albeit minor ones of threshold levels created by the GPA, and to set up controls to safeguard EU citizens and businesses against corruption in the awarding of government contracts.
This is very important because taxpayers money is involved here.

We also need to ensure that, whatever measures are put in place, our businesses will be left as competitive as possible, both domestically and in terms of overseas competition.

The problem is that at the moment we simply do not know what the right practices are.
Representatives of all sectors of industry have indicated, at a public hearing, that they see huge problems with the Commission proposals.
Unlike the Commission they did not consider these proposals as benefits but burdens, they were unanimous in their opposition.
We have asked the Commission on more than one occasion to supply information on the practical effects of their proposals, they have not so done.
I ask the Commission again, let us have studied consideration of the effects of each of the measures you wish to implement.
Let us have costings.
Let us have justifications.
Let us consult on this.
The Union pays out a fortune on studies every year.
If ever there was a clear case for a study there is a case for one on public procurement.

We have heard much from the Commission on the distortions in the internal market caused by bringing some sectors into the scope of the directive and leaving others out.
That is one question.
Another is that by changing the status of sectors, do we not distort the existing market?

The Commission has also proposed to bring the private sector within the scope of Directive  9338 EEC: effectively in line with the GPA even though the private sector is excluded from the GPA.
Does the Commission expect companies to run two systems, one for internal transactions and one for external, thereby increasing costs?

We have been told the Commission has a legal obligation to press ahead with this legislation.
We do not know whether this is true.
There is no proof that this has been put before the committee despite repeated requests on our behalf.
We in the Parliament need to be cautious.
We are dealing with matters which may be simple on paper yet have important implications for jobs.
What we need is time.
We have time to get this directive right because it does not have to be implemented until  1998 .
I would ask the Commission to listen to the concerns of Parliament and industry and let us have a new directive, then we can report on it, give our response and pass it through Parliament quickly.
The Commission knows what we want and we can act fairly and effectively and as quickly as possible when we get that proposal.