This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Lynne LaCourt:

Member of the Commission.
 Mr President, let me first of all thank you for giving me the opportunity to express the Commissions views on this sensitive issue.

You are already aware that there will be no ambitious deal in Copenhagen if the concerns of the developing countries are not taken into account, not only those of emerging countries, but also very much the concerns of the most vulnerable and the poorest developing countries.

Nevertheless, reaching a good deal in Copenhagen is in our common interest.
Developing countries are the most vulnerable countries to climate change.
The EU is the first donor in the world and a leader in the fight against climate change.
We have to combine our efforts.
There is no place for NorthSouth confrontation when you are dealing with climate change.

I would even go further and say that no other alliance can be as determining and effective as the one engaging the most vulnerable countries and the ones who have put on the negotiating table the most ambitious proposals to fight this plague  that is to say, Europe.

Our general approach towards the most vulnerable countries, followed up to now through the Global Climate Change Alliance, is made up of three parallel strands, which are interlinked and are mutually reinforcing.

First, building political alliances through reinforced dialogue on climate change.
Three joint political declarations have been signed respectively with Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific, plus one with the ACP group as a whole.

Second, promoting sound policies and strategies linking climate change and development.
I am of the opinion that climate resilience and lowcarbon policies must be integrated into wider developments and the poverty reduction strategies of our partners.
There can only be a single development strategy, which incorporates climate concerns pursuing the objectives of sustainable development and poverty reduction.
It is not a matter of choosing one or the other: both are essential.

In this spirit, we already support the implementation of the existing national adaptation programmes of action of LDCs in  15  eligible countries.

Third, encouraging adequate EU contribution to finance climate actions, in particular, for adaptation, which is the priority concern for those countries that are most vulnerable to climate change impact, but who barely contribute to greenhouse gas emissions.

We are only  50  days away from Copenhagen.
Expectations are very high.
And we are worried because the negotiations are dangerously close to deadlock at the moment.
It is now the time for putting offers on the table.
That is what Europe has done, and that is what we expect our partners to do as well.

Firstly, we have made offers in terms of commitments.
The EU has already put on the table ambitious targets and commitments  so far, the second most ambitious on the table of negotiations.
We have already guaranteed a unilateral  20  emission reduction by  2020 , and we are committed to increase to  30  if comparable efforts are made by others according to their responsibilities and capabilities.

Second, offers in terms of financing.
We are all conscious that a deal on financing will be crucial to achieving an agreement in Copenhagen.
To move forward in the negotiations, the EC issued in midSeptember its own proposals on finance.

One of them is the need for shortterm international public funding for climate to be scaled up for the period  20102012  to respond as a priority to urgent needs identified in the most vulnerable developing countries and, in particular, LDCs, SIDs, and African countries as defined in the Bali Action Plan.

Another one is the readiness of the EU to take on its fair share of the estimated financing requirements, public funding contributions being based on preferred criteria of ability to pay and responsibility for emissions.
This may lead to an EU contribution between EUR  2  billion and EUR  15  billion annually in  2020 .
These proposals will be discussed by the European Council at the end of October and will hopefully be the basis for a fullyfledged EU negotiation position on finance.

But action by the EU alone is not enough.
We strongly hope that other developed countries will follow our paths as the pressure grows before Copenhagen.
We count on developing countries as well.
They have to take the opportunity offered by climate financing to fully integrate adaptation into their development strategies and to move gradually to lowcarbon development paths for the longer term.

Although the focus has been, up to now, on adaptation for the poorest and most vulnerable developing countries, there is some ground to promote the design of lowcarbon development paths (i.e.
mitigation), which are compatible with poverty reduction objectives in those countries.

A specific focus on mechanisms to avoid deforestation and promote sustainable management of forests is crucial.
Indeed, the fight against tropical deforestation is the largest immediate mitigation challenge for the LDCs, and they can be beneficiaries, through mechanisms such as reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation schemes, of its international financing.

Similarly, ensuring in the future a more balanced distribution of the CDM (clean development mechanisms) investments in favour of the LDCs should also be part of the current reflection on the reform of this mechanism.

Finally, a word on the delivery channels for climate funding.
We as the Commission are not in favour of creating new funds.
New funding for climate should use existing and potentially improved delivery channels, promoting a decentralised bottomup governance structure in support of countryowned actions.