This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Frederic Smith:

.
Mr President, we are all extremely concerned by the events unfolding in the Palestinian territories.
These are very disturbing times: the insecurity, the interfactional violence, the Qassam rockets, the shellings.
The attack by militant Palestinian factions in Karem Shalom and the abduction of the Israeli soldier, followed by the Israeli military incursion into Gaza, signal a very worrying escalation.

In its statement last week, the European Union strongly condemned these acts, and we have just heard what the PresidentinOffice of the Council has said.
Last week I called on both sides to take a step back, to exercise restraint.
I now repeat that call.
All sides need to consider their responsibility extremely carefully.
All parties must abstain from any actions that are in violation of international law and we must insist that the Palestinian leadership do all in its power to end violence and terrorist activities.
The European Union has called for the immediate and unconditional release of Corporal Gilad Shalit.
This kind of act can only make things worse for the Palestinian people, as we are seeing.

But we must also look to the Israelis to act with prudence.
We understand their outrage, but diplomacy offers the best chance to address the immediate priority, not the destruction of essential infrastructure, the detention of members of the Palestinian Legislative Council or the shelling of the Prime Ministers office.

Recent events have considerably worsened the situation of the Palestinian population, and that is, I must say, a source of both sorrow and deep frustration for us.
The damage to Gazas only power station has deprived hundreds of thousands of Palestinians of electricity and could have serious humanitarian consequences.

Everything must be done to prevent the humanitarian situation from deteriorating further.
Israel has to understand its responsibilities for the wellbeing of the Palestinian population and an immediate step has to be the restoration of electricity to the Palestinian territories.
Both sides need to step back from the brink before this becomes a crisis that neither can control.

We must do all we can to avoid an unacceptable economic and humanitarian situation in the Palestinian territories.
Even before the latest events, we were looking at a  30  fall in income, unemployment at  40  and poverty levels of  67 .
But responsible politicians cannot give in to frustration.
I visited Israel and the Palestinian territories only two weeks ago.
The principal aim of my visit then was to bring Israel and President Abbas up to speed with the European Council and the Quartet decisions on a temporary international mechanism.
The mechanism is designed to provide immediate relief to the Palestinian people and to ensure that basic services are provided.
Discussions were positive, but there is no doubt that events in Gaza and the West Bank have greatly complicated this effort.
Now, more than ever, there is a need to press ahead with the mechanism to help meet at least the basic needs of ordinary Palestinians.

A number of donors have indicated their willingness to make funds available through the mechanism.
But the needs will be great and funds are limited.
The Commission has therefore sought the budgetary authoritys approval to transfer funds from the emergency reserve.
I am very grateful for the support of the European Parliament in this difficult endeavour and I am especially grateful for the many very valuable exchanges of views I was able to have with the committee chairmen and leaders in my discussions with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, at the forefront in setting up this mechanism.

It is our collective responsibility as Europeans to help the Palestinians and to give peace a chance.
I look forward to your continued support on that.

Let us be clear.
The mechanism cannot be a panacea for all the difficulties faced in the Palestinian territories.
Donors cannot be a substitute for the responsibilities of the Palestinian Government, which must take real steps to comply with the Quartets principles and end the violence that threatens the lives of Israelis and Palestinians alike.
Nor can donors be a substitute for the responsibilities of Israel under international law, for freeing up movement and access, for releasing Palestinian customs and tax revenues, or for the recent damage caused to key civil infrastructure.

The events of recent days have undermined a fragile process that has just begun with the meeting of President Abbas and Prime Minister Olmert in Amman.
As my colleague has said, these events come at a time when progress was being made on a national consensus agreement between Hamas and Fatah, based on the prisoners initiative.
It remains to be seen whether this tentative agreement for a government of national unity will produce a leadership better able to meet its responsibilities.

I have commended President Abbas for taking this initiative, but at the same time I have been clear that it is not an end in itself, but only the start of a process.
The Palestinian Government must ultimately commit itself to renouncing violence, to recognising Israel and to respecting previous agreements as set out by the Quartet.

We are faced with a very grave crisis situation in the Middle East.
We have to work together to deescalate the tension and to give diplomacy a chance.
Because in all the chaos and confusion of the current situation, one thing is clear: a negotiated twostate solution is the only way to guarantee the security that ordinary people  Israelis and Palestinians as well as others  desire.