This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Frederic White:

Madam President, I am pleased to have the opportunity to respond to Mr BernardReymonds balanced and wellreasoned report.
I am glad to see that for many parts of the House, in particular Mr Swoboda, Mr Brinkhorst and Mr Porto, there is considerable support for its balanced approach.
The European Union has a profound interest in helping the emergence of a stable, prosperous and open China that embraces political pluralism, free markets, the rule of law and assists in building a secure international order.
To those such as Mr Dupuis wing who believe that we have not been strong enough on the human rights situation, or Mr Ephremidis who approaches things in a rather different way, I have to say that I do not believe that they have put forward a real alternative.

The essence of our approach is that it is a longterm one.
It has to be pursued in good times and in bad, unless there is a fundamental change in the situation.
There is no doubt that both economically and politically the situation in China today is less hopeful than it was even a year ago.
I do not believe that is a reason for fundamentally changing the approach we have followed or the one that is commended by Mr BernardReymond both in his speech and in his report.

The adoption of the report is timely.
Under Prime Minister Zhu Rongji China has launched a series of key economic reforms.
Against the backdrop of the Asian crisis, however, these reforms are likely to come under pressure this coming year as economic growth slows.
Recent events in China have also given rise to serious concerns related to respect for human rights.
In these circumstances it is important  indeed essential  for us to convey the right signals to China.
Our communication set out a number of fundamental objectives.

Firstly, we want to engage China further through an upgraded political dialogue into the international community.
Over the past decade China has taken welcome steps on arms control, nonproliferation regimes, on preserving the global environment, combatting international crime and drug trafficking.
We should build upon Chinas desire to be recognised as a global responsible actor on the world stage and develop dialogue on global issues of common concern.
The history of the past shows that can yield practical results and is not just an idle dream.

Secondly, we need to integrate China further in the world economy by bringing it more fully into the world trading system and by supporting the process of economic and social reform that is under way.
China is the fastest growing market for European goods and services.
It is clearly in our interest to bring it more fully into the global economy.
Access to that market is too restrictive.
We do not want to retaliate though by creating a selfdefeating cycle of protectionism.
On the contrary, the openness of the European market will constitute our best contribution to helping China face the current crisis in Asia but we remain committed to opening markets further, including Chinas.
To the proposition that China should join the WTO, the answer is Yes, but on commercially meaningful terms, agreeing to the opening up of its economy.
That is appropriate for a country of its size and state of economic development.

I make no apologies for referring to the question of size.
It is the case that in a country the size of China  and it is not going to disappear and it is not going to change because we say nastier things or pass nastier resolutions  it is only by engaging honestly, economically and politically, being frank and candid, that we stand a chance of bringing about change in that country.
The European Union is dedicated to supporting Chinas transition to an open society based upon the rule of law and full respect for human rights.
Of course we are not satisfied with the current situation in China.
We have chosen a pragmatic and resultsoriented approach on this issue in which we challenge the Chinese authorities on issues and events of concern to us such as the recent spate of dissident trials and arrests.
We are not silent on those issues but, at the same time, we expand our areas of cooperation.
Both poles of the policy are necessary.

The dialogue on human rights has been useful but we have made it very clear to the Chinese authorities that we now need to achieve specific and tangible progress to maintain the credibility of this dialogue.
Recent developments in China that have been referred to have underlined that need.
We have asked for the release of dissidents imprisoned after the recent crackdown and that issue will remain on our agenda until these dissidents are released.

Most importantly, we have made clear to the Chinese authorities that we will identify benchmarks by which progress in the dialogue will be judged.
This innovation will ensure that the necessary pressure and momentum in the dialogue is maintained.
The question arises: What kind of benchmarks?
The kind we will be looking at include the following demands: Firstly, we need more detailed information on political prisoners, their number, the charges on which they have been sentenced, their health conditions, as well as access to some prisoners for European and NGO representatives.

Secondly, we want to see specific steps taken to improve prison conditions and reform the penal system, including conditions of appeal and access to judicial review in line with international standards.
The latter point is particularly relevant with regard to the death penalty and the situation of dissidents convicted for socalled counterrevolutionary crimes.

Thirdly, we want to see benchmarks for progress towards the ratification of the United Nations Human Rights Covenants which includes the followup to Mary Robinsons visit and closer cooperation with the European Union within the human rights dialogue.

Fourthly, another category of benchmarks relates to ethnic minorities especially those in Tibet.
It covers a wide range of issues such as the transparency of demographic information, the free use of the Tibetan language as well as open and clear information on alleged incidents involving ethnic minority groups and dissidents.

Despite these recent differences on human rights, I hope you will agree that European policy towards China, as exemplified by the Commission communication and Mr BernardReymonds report, has progressed significantly in a positive direction in recent years.
I am heartened to see that our communication and your report are broadly in agreement with each other.
That applies to Hong Kong as well.
I am sorry that I am not able to promise an early opening of a delegation in Macao.
We are having great difficulty in getting the resources and support we need for the delegations we want to open.
We will certainly examine the specific suggestions made in the report and incorporate them as fully as possible into the substance of our relations with China.

The challenge of developing a comprehensive and robust relationship between China and the European Union is one of the great geostrategic challenges for the next century.
It is my belief that we have laid solid foundations to allow the European Union of the future to meet such a crucial challenge and that we should be steady in our approach, firm in what we have to say but balanced in our policy.