This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Alastair Jones:

rapporteur.
 Mr President, Bulgaria applied to join the European Union  11  years ago, in  1995 , and negotiations were opened five years later.
Since those days we have seen remarkable changes: on the economic front GDP has doubled, foreign investment has increased from less than USD  100  million to over USD  1 . 7  billion, real wages have increased year on year and unemployment has halved.

Since the opening of negotiations, we have seen three changes of government, representing a wide range of the political spectrum: from the UDF Government of Ivan Kostov, to the return of former King Simeon to lead his National Movement Government from  2001  to  2005 , to the present socialistled coalition under Sergei Stanishev.
All have played a strong part in the reform process, taking forward Bulgarias progress towards EU accession.

This progress has taken place in spite of a very difficult regional situation, with conflict on Bulgarias borders.
The NATOled operations against Serbia began in March  1999  with air strikes that destroyed the Danube bridges and severed navigation between the upper and lower Danube for two years.
In addition to this economic disruption, devastating floods hit parts of Bulgaria in  2005 , with many deaths and thousands left homeless.

The fact that we saw NATO accession in March  2004  and have now reached the point of EU accession is a tribute to the determination and hard work of so many at all levels and from all shades of government, and no less a tribute to the Bulgarian people.
They have seen their country turned over, examined and criticised at an accelerating pace.
They have put up with dramatic change, as well as generalised and unjustified insults, but they have shown the forbearance and resolve to press on regardless, mindful perhaps of that old Bulgarian saying: a gentle word opens an iron gate.

I have always said that modernisation should be seen as beneficial in its own right and not merely as a prerequisite to EU accession, a sentiment that is reflected in my report today.
At the same time, we all recognise that this process will continue for many years after accession.

Many of you know that I am critical of so many aspects of the European Union, but I believe that the enlargement process is a great achievement, extending the area of democracy, stability, security and prosperity ever more widely, with generous financial support.
Provided that funds are well targeted, properly managed and well used, this is ultimately to the benefit of all citizens, not least the people of Bulgaria.

Let me focus on two particular issues.
Police and judicial reform has been a major concern throughout the accession process.
There has been much progress, but there is still a long way to go.
Old habits die hard and there are so many competing demands for public expenditure.
However, there is nothing more important for the daytoday confidence of citizens in their government and administration than a professional, competent and fair justice system.
I call for even more tangible and visible action by the Bulgarian authorities in dealing with serious crime.

Let me also touch on the subject of Kozloduy, which has attracted much attention.
Bulgaria is one of many countries in Europe facing an energy gap in the years ahead, with increasing reliance on energy imports from Russia and areas of instability.
I am a great believer in safe, sustainable energy resources that minimise carbon emissions, as well as diversity and security of supply.
The mood has changed and there is wide recognition that nuclear energy must play a stronger role.
This is particularly true of Bulgaria, which has generated electricity from nuclear sources, both for its own requirements and for other countries in the region.

The current undertaking is for the two reactors, Units  3  and  4 , to be closed this year and subsequently decommissioned.
We have reiterated the call for a little flexibility rather than unnecessary dogmatism.
This will give time for more attention to be given to redressing the economic consequences of premature closure and for progress to be made in creating additional sources of energy supply.

Let me briefly turn to another burning issue.
We have still to secure the release of the Bulgarian nurses from Libyan custody.
They have been wrongly incarcerated now for seven years.
What a gesture it would be if they could be home for Christmas!
I hope that the message to the Libyan authorities will be even more powerful with Bulgarias imminent accession to the EU.
I should like to call on you, Mr President, the Council and the Commission to make a further appeal to President Gaddafi.

Let me also take this opportunity to pay tribute to many charities that have worked hard in Bulgaria over the years, including Save the Children, ARK and Harvest for the Hungry, which is based in my own constituency in Chelmsford.

I wish to thank the Bulgarian Observers for their cooperation and assistance.
I look forward to working closely with Bulgarian MEPs next year, following elections in the spring, and I also want to thank Parliament for the privilege of being its rapporteur these past six years.
In particular, I thank successive Bulgarian governments and the people of Bulgaria for their stoicism and friendship.
We very much welcome them to the club.

(Applause)