This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Sarah McNabb:

Mr President, firstly I congratulate Mrs Bloch von Blottnitz on the amazing feat of achieving consensus in the Committee on Research.
Technological Development and Energy.
I think she is well placed through her excellent report to achieve consensus in the plenary session of Parliament.

Energy efficiency is of fundamental importance both to the environmental and the competitiveness policies of the European Union.
As far as the environment is concerned, we are a long way off meeting the targets which we set ourselves in Rio.
We are suffering widespread climate instability because of that failure.

As far as competitiveness is concerned, we see a reprehensible and incredible waste of money throughout the European Union; billions and billions of ecus are being wasted in energy usage that is not necessary.
Think of the purchasing power which those billions could release to our economy.
Larger firms are, of course, aware of this.
Our target through this programme has to be the smaller firms and individual households.
They must make the decisions which will allow us to save that energy and save that money.

If we look at the history we see very rapid action following the oil shock in  1973 .
Since then, however, there has been major regression tempered only by the recession which has hit most of our countries.
The energyintensity use in most of the European Union is worsening.
That is unacceptable.

The SAVE I programme was very small beer, a very small amount of money.
It is being evaluated, fortunately, before we move on to SAVE II.
One would have hoped the lessons from SAVE I would be learnt.
That is not so, as I shall explain later on.
One of the lessons from SAVE I was that far and away the best thing to do is to bring in binding legislation which Member States have to enforce.
There were ambitious plans for legislation.
Very little of that legislation has appeared.
It is true that we have legislation on the efficiency of boilers, fridges and freezers, labelling, and there is more to come.
But that is not enough.
We know that the main obstacle has been the predictable resistance of manufacturers.
They have no vested interest in energy efficiency and that is clear from their stance.

Let us look at the lessons.
Firstly, legislation is what works.
Secondly, you must have targets and you must monitor them.
The target in SAVE II is not ambitious;  1 . 5   increase yearonyear is not ambitious.
I would like to see an indicative programme issued by the Commission and monitored throughout the Member States.

Another lesson that is important, not from SAVE I but from the regional programme, is that you must incorporate measures on energy efficiency into the regional work of the EU and its policies.
They help impoverished regions.
Of course the same would apply to third countries.
I would like to see far more emphasis in our dealings with countries in Central and Eastern Europe and the Mediterranean areas on energy efficiency.

One area which must be emphasized above all is transport.
Transport takes almost half the energy cost and it uses almost half the oil.
We have not done enough in that sector.
Then there are domestic and industrial appliances, insulation for the heating of homes, and in some parts of the EU for the cooling of homes.
There is a good home rating scheme developed in my own constituency which should be far more widespread.
It must be made easier for third parties to finance energyefficient measures and for the growing industry of energy services to be helped.
This makes us competitive, remember.
Combined heat and power is another very sensible measure which needs encouragement; as do education and information throughout the EU, particularly to the target groups.
We need millions of people to make decisions which do not seem obvious to them.

Employment would be greatly helped by an extension of energy efficiency.
This has been proved in study after study.
I am therefore deeply disappointed at the negative attitude of the Council of Ministers which cannot even be bothered to get a proper legal base for the SAVE II programme.
That is indeed reprehensible, given the urgency.

I think we will see this week a very clear expression of the will of the European Parliament representing people in every Member State.
That will is to say:  Let us have much stronger measures for energy efficiency .
SAVE II is nowhere near ambitious enough.
It has not learned all the lessons from SAVE I.
It is a very limited, minimal approach but it is absolutely essential that the Council of Ministers knows that the European Parliament is backing it very strongly indeed.