This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by James Reid:

Mr President, as vicechairman of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, I am presenting this report on behalf of the chairman Mr Fayot who cannot be here and sends his apologies.
As Mrs Palacio, the original rapporteur, has mentioned, Mr Fayot took over the role in the accepted manner when she indicated after the vote that she felt unable to continue.
She took an opposing view and once the committee had adopted the report she asked Mr Fayot to present it.
However, I should like to pay tribute to Mrs Palacio for the work she has put into this report and for the extremely honest way she made her contribution to the report and has presented her views again this afternoon.

The vote in our committee was not along political lines.
People in the political parties voted in different ways.
As has been said, this case goes back over three years to the time of the last elections to the European Parliament in the summer of  1994 .
For a variety of reasons, it has taken this length of time to come before Parliament.
One of these reasons  perhaps the primary one  was because there was some rather ambiguous communications with the Portuguese authorities at first and Parliament was not sure exactly what was being requested of it.

During the  1994  European election campaign, the Portuguese Socialist Party held a press conference at its headquarters at which Mr Campos made some remarks about Mr Arlindo Cunha, the former Agricultural Minister.
The report before you notes that there were three particular allegations.
They are listed on page five of this report and I do not need to read them out now.
The accusations are that, under Portuguese law, by making such remarks, Mr Campos contravened various articles of the Portuguese penal code.

We all know that the press can present matters and statements in a way that does not necessarily show a Member of the European Parliament in a favourable light and in this case certainly one remark was taken out of context and misconstrued by the press.
However, it seems that Mr Campos remarks were not made on the spur of the moment.
Notwithstanding that, under article  10  of the Protocol to the Treaty of the European Communities, a Member of the European Parliament is immune from prosecution during its sessions.
This has been taken and accepted to mean any time during the period of office and at any place within his or her own country and within any other Member State.

To face prosecution for any charge, a Member must have his or her immunity lifted as the previous speaker said.
Since the offence of which Mr Campos is accused happened in Portugal he is protected by the same laws that would protect a member of the Portuguese Parliament under article  160  of their constitution.
In this Parliament, Rule  6  of the Rules of Procedure covers the matter.
The allegations against Mr Campos stem from the election campaign and the election campaign was before he was elected.

The purpose of Rule  6  is to protect both Members and Parliament itself by guaranteeing the independence of the institution.
At that time Mr Campos was a Member of the Portuguese Parliament but only a member of the opposition.
In any constitution or any democracy, the oppositions role is sometimes to support the government but also to oppose when it sees fit.
There can be no more important time to oppose than during an election campaign.
That is what Mr Campos did when both he and Mr Cunha were both candidates.
He opposed the policies of a government minister during an election campaign, making various public statements.
I would suggest that during a campaign the minister, Mr Cunha, could have defended himself in the same political way.
It happens all the time in politics.
It happens especially at election time  it is what elections are for.

This was the interpretation and the view that prevailed by a majority in the committee.
It was for the reasons I have stated and which are listed in the report that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities decided in this instance alone against waiving the parliamentary immunity of the aforementioned Mr Campos.