This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Helen White:

Mr President, I hope nobody listening to this debate is in any doubt about the seriousness of the course we are about to embark upon.
We are about to engage in a historic process which in my opinion will either make or break the European Union.
If we handle this process properly the European Union will become a genuinely wide European Union, not simply a Western European Union.
It will become a zone of stability and prosperity which will improve the quality of life of all its citizens and it will become a major force for good in the world beyond its borders.
However, if we get this process wrong, the European Union will at best become a bloated introverted structure incapable of making effective decisions and it could become one which will be in danger of losing any concept of a common vocation.
At the very worst we could see the European Union begin to crumble to the deafening sounds of mutual recriminations and contradictory ambitions, as well as endless disputes about obscure matters of European law.

Quite simply the challenge which is facing us today is to make quite sure that we get it right and that enlargement benefits the European Union and does not undermine it.
We have to make sure that at the end of the process we have a European Union which is effective and efficient, built on democratic legitimacy, which respects the relationship between small and large states and which respects the principle of subsidiarity.
That is a tall order.
It will not be easy.
It is the challenge we must confront at the beginning of the new century.
If the challenge of the  1980 s was to complete the single market, the challenge of the  1990 s to complete the single currency, the challenge at the turn of the century must be to create and make enlargement work for the benefit of the European Union.
It will require imagination, sensitivity, goodwill and, above all, honesty of political approach.

Our political message here today must be simply this: yes, we believe in enlargement, we want it to go ahead and we are not going to renege on our historic commitment to the countries of central and eastern Europe.
Secondly, we believe this process should be an inclusive one, that all countries in central and eastern Europe and Cyprus are in the pipeline to European Union membership, although they may be at different stages of that pipeline.
But we must also recognize that process will be immensely difficult.
We talk glibly about taking on the acquis communautaire , for example.
We often do not point out that the acquis communautaire now covers  80 ,  000  pages of text and  20 ,  000  legal acts.
That is quite a lot to take on.

We must also remember that these countries are all poorer than we are and they have to go through major problems of economic restructuring.
So our next message must be that it is vital for the European Union to step up its preaccession strategy, to increase the speed of preparing these countries for membership.
In particular, I would urge greater attention to be paid to the administrative and judicial capacity of these applicant countries.
In my view that is the biggest obstacle to accession to the European Union.

We also have to say that some countries are more ready to go through this last stage down the road to European Union membership than others.
Therefore, we have to accept the Commissions recommendations that we should proceed with five countries in addition to Cyprus.
A further message is that no country is in the European Union yet.
Starting this process does not guarantee you will finish it.
A lot of work needs to be done and, equally, if a country is not part of those initial negotiations, they can still join if they make great strides.
It is a flexible process.

We must also make it clear that the European Union has to change.
When we talk about change we must remember that enlargement has to be ratified by every single parliament in the European Union and by this parliament.
Therefore, all the changes we propose must have the consent of the people.
We cannot go beyond what they wish to see.

Finally, our message must be that the European Conference gives us a major opportunity to create a European political space that will allow us, while waiting for these negotiations, to engage in a sensible structured political dialogue with the countries which wish to join the European Union in the shorter or the longer term.
I will conclude by saying that, above all, we should remember that this is a political process, not a technical one.
It will require political courage and political decisions.
Once we get the single currency on the road we must give every ounce of our political energy to making enlargement work for the benefit of the European continent.