This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Michael McNabb:

Mr President, I have to say that I am very pleased that the leadership of my own group has asked me to speak for the group today because I am quite sure that the vast majority of the people of Northern Ireland would want me to speak for them today to express their deep gratitude to all of the European institutions for the powerful strength and support that they have given to the peace movement on our streets.

Could I begin by expressing their gratitude, and my thanks, to you for representing this Parliament and coming to our streets and thereby strengthening the will for peace and the mood for peace by showing the people on the streets, who have been neglected for so long, that Europe and the outside world really did care.
That strengthened enormously the will for peace among the people.
In so doing you are building on the strong foundations, already laid by the European Commission, and let nobody underestimate the strength of those foundations.

When the ceasefires were called, Jacques Delors approached us immediately to ask what he could do to help and he initiated the special programme for peace and reconciliation.
His successor, President Santer, came to our streets to meet with people at local level and, of course, the fact that the President of the European Commission came to the streets was an enormous statement, not only of goodwill but of positive support for the peace process and of strength for that process.

The fact that his colleague the Commissioner for regional policy with major responsibility for Northern Ireland, Monica WulfMathies, has come to our streets many times and has gone to the areas of highest unemployment and has brought together people from both sides on their common ground  economic regeneration  has been a very important factor in the healing process that we believe is now under way.
Of course, the two governments who are represented here today and in particular the two people who are representing them who have been involved in very detailed work during the talks leading to the agreement have put enormous efforts into it, together with previous governments who have also made very strong moves towards peace in our country.

We have, I believe, an historic opportunity now for a new beginning in which we can leave behind us our terrible and tragic past.
It is a new beginning in which there will be no victory for either section of our people because in divided societies victories are not solutions.

What we have is an agreement that underlines and proposes accommodation and respect for the identities of both sections of our people and for the ethos of both sections of our people and creates the circumstances in which both sections of our people can work together in their common interests and by so doing can break down the barriers of the past.
There again, we see the enormous influence of the European Union because, as I have often said the European Union has been a major inspiration to the philosophy of creating peace.
People often talk of European Union as economic this and economic that, but fundamentally, as I have often said on my streets, it is the finest example in the history of the world of conflict resolution.

Just imagine fifty years ago: for the second time in a century, after millions has been slaughtered, who could have forecast we would be altogether today?
But we are.
How was it done?
How it was done involves the philosophy I am talking about, not just in Northern Ireland but in every area of conflict in the world because at the end of the day all conflict is about the same thing  it is about seeing difference as a threat.

(Applause) The peoples of Europe decided that difference  whether it is your race, your religion, your nationality or your ethnicity  is an accident of birth and not something that you should fight about; it is something you should respect.
Looking at the philosophical principles that create peace, what the peoples of Europe did was to build institutions  and those three institutions are represented here today  which fully respect the differences of their peoples.
No one in Europe has lost their identity but, and this is the important point, make them work together in their substantial common interests which are social and economic, as I often say spilling their sweat and not their blood , and by doing that we can breakdown the barriers and centuries and the new Europe will have evolved.

Those are the principles that go to the heart of this new agreement if you read it.
They are creating institutions within Northern Ireland and between North and South and between Britain and Ireland that respect our differences but which allow us to work together in our common interests based on partnership, on equality, on mutual respect, on consent and agreement.
As we lay those foundations now, as the two governments have laid those foundations for us by their work for this agreement, let us hope that by working together the real healing process in Ireland will begin and we will break down the barriers of prejudice of centuries and the new Ireland will evolve in the way the new Europe has but with no victory for either side but based on agreement and respect for diversity.

Indeed, Mr President, as that is happening I have no doubt that the continued support from the European Union and from the European Commission and Council of Ministers in particular, through economic regeneration, will play a major role in strengthening the common ground enormously and in expressing to our people at grassroots level the massive international goodwill that exists for peace in the offshore island of the European Union.
The representatives of all sections of our people face the challenge of harnessing that massive international goodwill and translating it into real benefits for our people and in doing it together to break down the barriers of centuries.

We look forward in Northern Ireland to continuing support from our friends in the European Union and we thank you for it.
We are very confident, and I know I am speaking for the vast majority of our people from both sectors of our community when I say we are looking forward to laying our past permanently behind us.
As we move into the next century let it be the first century in our island history in which we will have no killing on our streets and no emigration of our young people to other lands to earn a living.

(Loud and sustained applause)