This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Katarina Bauer:

Mr President, I would first of all like to thank Mr Maat, who started the work on this subject, and the rapporteur, Mr Post, for their excellent work.

As you know, on  2  June  2006 , the Commission, on behalf of the Community and Greenland, initialled a new Fisheries Partnership Agreement after three years of long and complex negotiations.
The Agreement came into effect as of  1  January  2007  for a period of six years.
Currently, a provisional application of the Agreement is in force through a Council decision which was adopted on  21  December  2006 .

Before making a short presentation of the new Fisheries Partnership Agreement with Greenland, I would like to outline just a few points relating to the previous agreement, which dated back to  1985  when Greenland had left the Community.
Shortly after the Fourth Protocol entered into force on  1  January  2001 , the Court of Auditors and Parliament strongly criticised the protocols under the Greenland Fisheries Agreement for including paper fish, for not including the ship owners payment and for not being transparent enough.
As a consequence, the Commission emphasised the need for adjustments during the midterm review of the Fourth Protocol in order to make a clearer distinction between the value for fish and support for the development of Greenlands fisheries sector.
The revision of the Fourth Protocol led to a division of funds, under which  25   of the financial contribution was earmarked for budgetary support to the fisheries sector.
Paper fish were removed, real fish quotas and licence fees were introduced and provisions for an annual scientific review of the quotas were incorporated.
These important changes were also incorporated into the new agreement.
On this basis, during negotiations on the new agreement, the Commission has insisted on obtaining quotas for real fish and eliminating paper fish, on maintaining and even increasing the shipowners payment and on having a clear sectoral policy programme for the fisheries sector to be supported by the Community.

Another outcome of the midterm review was the Council conclusions of February  2003 , in which the Council stated that future cooperation between the Community and Greenland would be based on a twopillar approach with a broader cooperation arrangement in areas other than fisheries and a fisheries agreement.
The broader agreement takes the form of a Council decision including a joint declaration and will provide up to EUR  25  million per year to Greenland on the basis of cooperation in areas other than fisheries.
Therefore, one can conclude that the initialling of the Fisheries Partnership Agreement does not merely represent the closure of the negotiations conducted over the past year, but also the closure of what was initialled back in  2003  with the midterm review of the Fourth Fisheries Protocol and the Council conclusions of February  2003 .

Turning now to the new agreement, let me outline the following.
The financial contribution of the previous Protocol was EUR  42 . 8  million per year, making it one of the biggest bilateral fisheries agreements.
The value of the new protocol has decreased considerably given the changes to the Community quotas.
Some have decreased due to the poor state of the stocks, the needs of Greenlands fishing industry and the rate of utilisation by the Community, while others have increased due to the sound state of the stocks and based on the needs of Community industry.
As a result of these changes to the quotas, the Communitys financial contribution is now EUR  15 . 85  million per year.
This sum includes a specific sum of EUR  3 . 26  million to be used for a multiannual fisheries policy programme in Greenland.
In addition to this contribution, a payment from ship owners of EUR  2  million in the form of licences is also expected.

With regard to the amendments put forward by Parliament, I would like to stress that the Commission fully shares the concern of the Parliament on each amendment proposed.
However, with respect to amendments  13 , we feel that these are already covered in the Protocol itself and we therefore consider them unnecessary.
Furthermore, in relation to amendments  4  and  6  on the reporting requirements to Parliament, I would like to stress that the Commission already complies with the transmission of this information in line with the current interinstitutional arrangement.
Moreover, concerning amendment  5  on the Member States compliance with reporting requirements, it should be stressed that the Commission already examines whether catch reporting is respected.
In addition, it is stated in the annex and the appendix to the Protocol that vessels must comply with the reporting requirements of the previous fishing year in order to obtain a licence.
On this basis, therefore, the amendment is not necessary.

Finally, on amendment  7 , I would like to make it clear that, given the previous criticism put forward by both the Court of Auditors and the European Parliament itself of the Commissions financial management of the external fisheries agreements, the Commission finds it hard to understand this amendment, which, in essence, is no different to the mechanism found under the modified Fourth Protocol and does not make it possible for the Commission to manage the underutilised fishing opportunities in the best possible way.
Therefore, taking the financial responsibility of the Commission into consideration, the Commission cannot accept this amendment.

In conclusion, let me thank Parliament and, in particular, the members of the Committee on Fisheries and the rapporteur for their constructive engagement on this important fight.