This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Roger Bush:

Mr President, I want to begin by thanking both the PresidentinOffice of the Council and Commissioner Oreja for their contributions today.
It was in accord with his positive and sunny nature that the PresidentinOffice of the Council gave us his usual optimistic version of what he thinks is going on in the IGC.
Commissioner Oreja was just a bit more realistic, if not to say a bit more honest in his assessment of the way in which we think it is going.

In this Parliament I hope there are none  certainly in my group  who wish to be negative, difficult, or awkward.
We want a positive outcome to the Amsterdam Summit.
We are determined there will be if we can have any influence on that process because it is crucial for the development of the Union into the next millennium that we have a positive outcome.
But, if we listen to the PresidentinOffices report, it is indicative of the fears and anxieties of the people of the European Union.

He made clear that the major politicallysensitive issues are those concerned with the institutional questions.
I would rather he had said that the major politicallysensitive issues were about how we could really strengthen employment creation and the social dimension, move forward on creating a better environment, better consumer protection, better public health.
My anxiety about what he said is that those issues are already the process of a large consensus which means that they are already decided and there is not much in them.
That is why it is so easy to find political consensus on them.

It is important that we make politically clear that the citizens of the European Union are concerned about job creation.
If we are serious about a chapter in the Treaty that deals with job creation, our citizens do not just want pious words.
They want at least the Treaty to give us the right to start to coordinate our macroeconomic policies to generate job creation at European Union level.
That is the only way that the employment chapter will have any meaning.

Similarly, on the social dimension, I am delighted that the social protocol will be integrated into the Treaty of European Union and delighted that  1  May, Labour Day, saw the election of a Labour Government in Britain that will allow that to happen.
But we want to see some strengthening of that social protocol as well.
We also want to see a move forward on gender equality and on an antidiscrimination clause with some real meaning.
And we want to see these dealt with by qualified majority voting and codecision and not by unanimity which I suspect we may see, certainly on the antidiscrimination clause.

These are the things which affect people in the Union.
These are the things which should be driving the last few days of the IGC, to make these things stronger, to make the message clear to our people.
Commissioner Oreja made a very telling statement when he said that what we have is the minimum that public opinion could accept  the minimum!
And that worries me and my group very much.
We want to see the Union moving forward but its first priority must be to deal with those issues that have so destabilized public opinion in the European Union countries themselves about the value of the European Union to them and their families.

Let us see a real drive forward, not just pious rhetoric about these issues but a real step forward in the Treaty.
My group will be assessing the Treaty on whether it meets the aspirations of the people of the Union.

It must also make the Union ready for enlargement and that means institutional changes.
We could have hoped that our heads of government could have understood that in order to have an effective and efficient Union we must have institutional changes.
They should be automatic if we are going to see the enlargement of the Union to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
So there really is an imperative to prepare the Union for enlargement by dealing firstly with the institutional situation that needs to be remedied.
For instance, we need to reduce the Unions decisionmaking procedures to three and we want to see that happen.
It has been the demand of this Parliament for a long time and we hope it will happen.
And of course we want to see the extension of qualified majority voting and codecision.
We want to see all those things that will ensure that this Parliaments rights are maintained.

We cannot and will not accept the diminution of any of the present rights of this Parliament  either its budgetary or legislative rights  in any field.
I hope that will be taken back very clearly to the Intergovernmental Conference.