This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Lynne Jones:

Mr President, Members of Parliament, I must say that I am rather disconcerted by this debate.

First of all, may I remind you that this plan was presented to Parliament on the  3 rd November  1995 .
You must have examined it in depth, as you presented to me a report on the priorities in February  1997 !
So, my dear friends, let us be serious!
Mr.
Pimenta, this plan is presented under my name and I dare hope that the DirectorGeneral has not betrayed me.
If you think that he has done so, why did you not say so?
That really would be something that would call for disciplinary sanction.
And this Parliament is apparently very fond of disciplinary sanctions.
It would have been preferable, rather than to say it publicly today, to have the kindness to let the Commission know sooner.

I remember very well that before this document was submitted to the Council and to Parliament, Parliament had asked me not to present a detailed action plan, but a general outline of intervention policies.
And if you read this document, you will see that the Commission has chosen as new priorities  as had never been done before  public services, financial services and the information society, and not products any more.
You should have thought about these priorities!
Because had I had to wait for your opinion before starting to do anything, since November  1995 , I would have done nothing until today.
The debate should therefore be put back into context.

While waiting for you to reflect  since the  3 rd November  1995 !
 the Commission, which had been asked to present a political plan, and not a plan of action which it worked out subsequently, presented a total of twelve proposals for directives concerning all the policies.
Out of these twelve, three  i.e.
one quarter  concern consumer policy, and more precisely access to justice, guarantees and consumption credit, which is being discussed this afternoon.
After which, we presented you with the Green Paper on financial services, which will be debated shortly.
Parliament then rejected the remote financial service, which we will present again.
Everyone must therefore assume their responsibilities, as frankly, I hardly find it acceptable that the Commission is placed under accusation without recognition of everything it did in  1996 .

Mrs Jackson, if you think that the document is of no value because it does not mention BSE, your government and your party could have been of major help to this institution and to the Commission if it had informed us of what was going on.
I would remind you that in  1996  the Commission formed the interservice group.
We came up with three memorandums and the vademecum for consumers and the document  and maybe this is a detail you did not take on board  was presented in November  1995  and the crisis erupted in March.

(FR) Indeed, our relationship has always been loyal.
Having said that, I do not wish to review everything we have done, for example with regard to the pursuit of legislative activities, indication of prices, comparative advertising, etc., but I find the comments I have heard here to be rather unfair, hardly generous and most inaccurate.

Moreover, I would like to say that I obtained the powers with regard to health control exactly a week ago.
I would like to ask the Members of Parliament to be calm, as we will have to define together what it would be best to do.
I do not have a miracle solution, Mr Whitehead, and I have already said that I would come and listen to you in the middle of March to find out what you are proposing.
For example I believe that, bearing in mind my new responsibilities, it would be good for me to reexamine the Green Paper on food law  which was nearly ready  in the light of the changes in policies and priorities which have just been decided.

We have made a leap forward to the advantage of the consumer, but we should now set to work without excessive demagogy.
That is a challenge we must take up together.
I find it rather strange that I am asked today what are my decisions, my programmes, my ideas or  worse  those of the Commission regarding health, controls or the scientific committee.
I received these powers only a week ago!
I am not thinking so much of you, but of other interventions we have heard today.

Having said that, I will nevertheless reply to some more specific observations that have been made.
As regards the Green Paper, it was ready in the interservice consultations, but I feel that in the new situation that has come to light since last week, it is my duty to reexamine it and see whether it is possible to push things a little further.

Mrs Kuhn, as regards baby food, one can always dream of revolution.
This does not prevent current law from having limits.
For as long as the treaty is not amended, the Commission is obliged to apply it as it is, and Mr Bangemann has started a proceeding against Germany for hindering free circulation.
We must respect the rules, whether or not we like them, until we come to change them.

As regards the instructions, I hope that it is an exceptional case, but I am very willing to find out more, as I did not know about it.
I do not wish to launch into a reply on a subject that I do not know, but I would like to learn more, in order to determine whether it is habitual practice or a particular case.
As regards subsidies to organizations  I am returning to the last remark from Mr Pimenta and others  we have been reproached for distributing money without exactly knowing why, while we introduced a procedure for encouraging consumer organizations to work together on Community projects, and we tried not to grant operating subsidies any more, but only to support specific projects.
I think we are now ready to publish in the Official Journal the result of our work, which has not been easy.

For southern European countries whose need is greatest, I myself sent a special adviser to the four countries, to meet all the consumer organizations, which are now in a position to make proposals.
I would like action from the consumer associations, rather than to tell them myself what they should do.
After a years work, we are in a position to start projects covering the four countries of Mediterranean Europe  Italy, Portugal, Greece and Spain  in order to reinforce a consumerism culture which is little developed in southern Europe.

As regards Article  129  A, as you know, six member countries have submitted an amendment to the CIG; we ourselves have presented an amendment to Article  129 .
We hope in this way to be able to promote the reinforcement of the consumer and health policy.

I would now like to talk about food labelling.
At this stage, I can only confirm what Mr President said yesterday in his speech  I quote:  I argue for the gradual introduction of a proper food policy and, in this context, I am in favour of compulsory and systematic labelling .
The DG XXIV has already launched a consultation and study involving consumer associations to try to define jointly what would be clear, important and pertinent information, so that consumers are no longer flooded with a tide of information in which they are lost.
For the moment, opinions largely conflict, and we will have to cut short as matters have reached political level, but we wanted to know at least the ideas of the consumer associations.

I do not know whether I have answered everyone.
I had a comment for Mr Garosci on the subject of the Euro, which is one of our concerns and which we are trying to discuss with the appropriate Commissioner.
I hope to have answered all the questions.
On financial services, we will hold a debate now.
I will therefore come back to it in detail with my colleague Monti.
With regard to the new health controls, the meeting with Parliament is fixed for mid March.