This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Roger Brown:

Member of the Commission.
 Madam President, I should like to thank Mr Coelho and Mr Alvaro for their contributions, and thank you for the very constructive cooperation we have had on this extremely complicated file that I inherited.
It is very complicated, but I am determined to work together with you in order to get this right in a transparent way and to see the project completed.

The vote tomorrow is very timely for the SIS II project.
The Council has confirmed that the Milestone I test was successful and that the development of SIS II should continue on the basis of current technical solutions.

The legislative proposals before you contained three substantial elements: Mr Coelho made reference to them, and that will change the development of the project.
First, as Mr Coelho said, the initial expiry date of the instruments   30  June this year  has become unrealistic and will therefore be changed.
This will allow the SIS II project to continue in the light of technical requirements and a global schedule which are currently being redefined with the Member States experts.
It will be available for the Council on  3  and  4  June.

The rapporteur calls for a specific deadline for SIS II development.
I am sorry to tell you that the Commission is not yet in a position to take up that proposal.
The Commissions experts, together with all Member States, are in the process of finalising the adaptation of requirements and the new global schedule.
Once this is done, the Commission will make appropriate suggestions in the light of the new global schedule to be presented at the next Justice and Home Affairs Council in two weeks.

Secondly, the Global Programme Management Board is a group of technical experts advising on SIS II development and that should be formalised.
The global management board has already proven to be a very good tool of cooperation and technical analysis between the Commission and Member State experts.
The proposal will make sure that this will continue whilst streamlining the boards role, composition and procedures.
For this reason  it is a purely technical body  it is not appropriate to open the board to MEPs and other parliamentary officials.
We will continue to move forward on SIS II in a transparent way with the European Parliament, but we must keep a clear distinction between the technical work and political transparency.
But in this spirit, the Commission is open to providing full technical information to the Members of this House by making available the reports of the board to Parliament, in line with what Mr Coelho suggests.

Thirdly, the necessary legal flexibility to carry out the development through an alternative technical scenario would be foreseen and I believe that we all agree on the rationale of this.

As regards the budgetary aspects of continuing SIS II development, the Commission shares the rapporteurs aim to make the most efficient use of taxpayers money.
In this context, the report asks to reserve Parliaments right to put funds for SIS II development for  2011  in the budgetary reserve.
This is, of course, entirely within the discretion of the budgetary authority.
From the point of view of budgetary implementation, I would only ask Mr Alvaro if there could be some sort of clear and efficient deblocking procedure for the case when we would need the money.
I would like to thank the LIBE committee, Mr Coelho and the Budgetary Control Committee rapporteur, Mr Alvaro, for their excellent cooperation on this file.

I am sorry that Mr Tavares is not yet here.
We would have had an opportunity to discuss the EU resettlement programme  an extremely important subject  with him.
As you know, a large majority of refugees worldwide are hosted in countries in Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
Many of these refugees find themselves in Catch 22  situations: they cannot return to their country of origin, nor can they integrate locally in the country of first asylum, since many of these countries are themselves victims of conflict or poverty.
For these groups of refugees, resettlement can be the only solution.

Through resettlement, the Member States of the European Union can demonstrate tangible solidarity with these often overburdened countries of first asylum, at the same time protecting some of the most vulnerable refugees under sustainable and humane conditions.
Today, resettlement is carried out, but there is no structural coordination at EU level.
The Commission believes that the EU can play a bigger part and be more active on resettlement by strengthening the Unions role globally and showing solidarity with the most affected regions.
The proposal tabled in September  2009  aims to improve the situation.
We are very satisfied by the very positive response that Parliament and the Council have given to the proposal.
I would particularly like to thank Mr Tavares for his sterling work on this, and I welcome the strong political consensus among the different groups on this matter.

The idea in the proposal is that the EU, in partnership with the UNHCR, will contribute to more strategic use of resettlement on the basis of an annual decision on the common priorities for resettlement.
By pooling the national quotas, the EU can help to alleviate some of the most difficult conflicts in the world and in refugee situations.
The programme leaves to each Member State the final choice as regards the number of refugees to be resettled, although it will enable them to coordinate and mutualise experiences and best practices.
Through the annual exercise, the EU will be able to be more reactive to evolving challenges and global refugee needs in order to render more efficient the Member States use of the European Refugee Fund.
The programme will also help in a more targeted and practical cooperation project through the Asylum Support Office, working with both national administrations and civil society organisations.
I fully support the rapporteurs idea of creating a specialised unit in the office to be established in Malta.

The Joint EU resettlement programme is being discussed at a crucial time: since  2007 , five Member States  in addition to those which already had the programmes  have decided to start national resettlement programmes.
Several other Member States have resettled Iraqi refugees over the past year in response to a commitment agreed at EU level in  2008 .
It is crucial that we maintain this positive momentum and that the adoption of the proposal is not delayed.

We regret, however, that certain divergences and procedural issues are hampering the rapid adoption of this proposal.
This proposal is of great political significance.
The Commissions decision to establish annual priorities for resettlement is an implementing decision, and forms part of the financial management of the European Refugee Fund.
With respect to the delegated acts procedures, we are concerned that the procedure would be considerably delayed, making management of the fund very difficult.

This is a first step towards a common approach; there will, of course, be a review of the experience, and there are plans to bring forward more ambitious initiatives as part of the Stockholm Programme.