This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Philip Finlayson:

VicePresident of the Commission.
Mr President, March offers a real opportunity for the European Union.
Firstly, it gives us a chance to show citizens a European Union taking ambitious, clear decisions on subjects that they care deeply about.
Secondly, we will be called upon to agree a declaration that will not only celebrate our achievements over these  50  years, but set out what we can do in the future.
So, the two are closely linked.
A successful spring Council would provide the perfect springboard for an ambitious Berlin declaration.

Europe has to take action.
It has to be political, effective and play a key role when it comes to addressing the major challenges of todays globalised world.
Growth and jobs, climate change, energy: these are subjects on the minds of Europeans every day.
We have a real opportunity to show what the European Union can offer, of course, in full compliance with our renewed commitment to better regulation.

I should like to focus on climate change, energy and the growth and jobs agenda.
Two weeks ago the UN Panel on Climate Change set out clearly, calmly and irrefutably the facts on climate change.
The goal of limiting temperature gains to  2 C is still achievable  just!
The next decade or so will determine whether we manage to bring the situation under control.
Our international partners, investors and citizens are all looking to the European Union for clear, determined action.

The scale of the problem is huge.
A bold response is the only one that makes sense and that means practical policy proposals and binding targets.
That is why we proposed that developed countries accept a  30  emission reduction target by  2020  compared to  1990  levels.
At the same time, nobody questions the need to bring developing countries into the global efforts to cut emissions, and they can realistically be put on track to limit the growth in their emissions, to start with, and to start cutting by  2020 .

I expect the spring European Council to send a convincing and strong signal on the need for determined action on climate change.
The resolution on climate change, which this House will adopt tomorrow and which is both encouraging and stunning, contains an important and urgent message, which the Commission will pass on to the Heads of State and Government when climate issues are being discussed at the spring Council.

However, we must also show both inside and outside the EU that we are prepared to act ourselves today.
That is why the spring Council should agree a firm, independent EU commitment to achieving at least a  20  reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by  2020 .
This will be a real demonstration of our commitment.

Energy is key to cutting emissions.
However, it is more than that: secure supply, fairer prices and more choice are all issues that are central to citizens daily concerns for themselves, their families and future generations and, of course, to European industry.
There is also an instinctive sense that these issues can only be tackled effectively at European level.
Therefore, this is also a stern test for the European Union itself.

Last month, the Commission set out its vision of how to put European energy policy on track and I very much welcome the supportive stance of this Parliament.
Whenever we face a longterm challenge, it is essential that Europeans can look to their democraticallyelected representatives to explain why reform is essential, to put shortterm change in the context of longterm purpose, to convince us that every one of us can play a part, for example through doing what we can on energy efficiency.

The comprehensive resolution that you adopted on  14  December last year reflects the essential role that Parliament plays in this context.
So the ambition and conviction of the European Council are critical.
We cannot put off decisions any longer.
Europe needs to send the clearest of messages that it is committed to transforming the shape of European energy over the next few decades.
Investors are ready to step in on a massive scale, but they need a clearer signal.
That means decisive action in the internal market.
It means real steps to ensure solidarity between Member States.
It means making research in this area our top priority, for example as the first target for the European Institute of Technology.
It means a precise, ambitious and, in particular, binding target of bringing renewable energy into the mainstream by  2020 .

With a clear green light from the European Council, the Commission is ready to bring forward a wide range of precise legislative measures this year.
Climate change and energy are integral parts of the broader issue on which the spring Council will focus, the Lisbon Strategy for Growth and Jobs.
Real steps are being taken to invest more in innovation, to make life easier for new and growing businesses, to help citizens prepare for change.
The economic situation, as you know, is improving and Europe has shown that it is facing up to the challenge of globalisation, but these first steps now need to accelerate.
The consensus for change needs to be translated into action in all parts of Europe and in all sectors.
Modernising our economies and societies is essential if our values and quality of life are to flourish in this rapidly changing world.

The spring Council needs to give a clear message that we will press ahead with reform at all levels as set out in the Commissions annual progress report on the Lisbon Strategy, including the countryspecific recommendations.

The Commission strongly welcomes Parliaments support on this point.
Your resolution gives a timely reminder of some of the key benchmarks by which the credibility of action will be assessed.
For example, reducing startup time for new businesses to no more than one week, or cheaper protection of intellectual property rights.

Time is running out if we are to avoid the worst effects of climate change, tackle the global imbalance between energy supply and demand, and secure real modernisation.
It is time to put our best wisdom at the service of these objectives.
George Bernard Shaw said that we grow wise not by remembering the past, but by being responsible for the future.
At a time when we are celebrating  50  years of the European Union, this is a wise thing to remember.

Bold, ambitious and longterm decisions from the spring Council in March will put the European Union on the road to finding real answers to these most urgent questions.