This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Lynne Whittacker:

Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hardly think that I shall be taking up the whole of my five minutes, which some of you will no doubt be glad to hear, in view of the lateness of the hour, and those of you who know me know that I do actually keep to time.
Within the framework of the Uruguay Round decisions, the European Union is committed, under the Blair House Agreement, to growing a maximum quantity of oilseeds for the nonfood sector on setaside land.
The background to this arrangement is as follows: the setaside scheme was introduced as part of the  1992  agricultural reform in order to limit the supply of cereals and oilseeds for food.
The cultivation of certain agricultural products for use in the nonfood sector is permitted on such land.
The production of methyl ester  known as biodiesel  from oilseed rape gives rise to a byproduct, rape cake, which, like soya meal, can be used in animal feedingstuffs.
These feedingstuffs now compete with certain imported feedingstuffs, most of which are imported from the United States.
The European Union has therefore undertaken, under the abovementioned agreement, to limit the amount of this rape that is grown for the nonfood sector to a specific quantity, in this case  1  million tonnes of soya bean meal equivalents.

The present proposal by the Commission is intended to introduce measures to restrict the rape cultivation in question if this figure of  1  million tonnes of soya bean meal equivalents is exceeded.
Depending on how you calculate it, this quantity is equivalent to a cultivation area of about  1 . 2  million hectares of rape, a figure which so far has never been reached in the European Union.
This scheme has no effect on expenditure from the European budget.
However, in  1995  the amount produced was  940  tonnes, which fell well short of the maximum permitted quantity of  1  million tonnes.
This figure, which is based on the Commissions calculations, must clearly have been set too high as a result of using conversion coefficients which were no longer appropriate.
As a result of the reduction in the setaside quota a falling trend is actually expected in  1996 .

The Commissions proposal therefore appears, at first sight, to have been presented prematurely; on the other hand it does give producers a degree of security in planning their production, and it should be seized  and used  as an opportunity to get ahead in setting a new trend towards making greater use of renewable raw materials.
That is also the reason why I have to reject Amendment No  3 , which lays down that, in the theoretical case of the permitted maximum quantity of  1  million tonnes of soya bean meal equivalents being exceeded, in some circumstances a further, punitive setaside area should be imposed the following year.
It was precisely this that we were trying to avoid in this report, which I drafted.

I should just like to make a few brief comments on the amendments.
The maximum limit of  1  million tonnes applies only to byproducts intended for food or feed use.
Many byproducts can however be used for other purposes.
For example the meal that arises as a result of rapeseed extraction, also known as rapeseed cake, is an excellent protein concentrate, but can also be used, for example, in alternative energy production, or as a soil improver in arable farming.
Amendment No  1  therefore seeks to make it clear that this type of byproduct, which can be used for purposes other than feed or food use, for example as a source of energy, as a biogas fuel or as a source of humus, is excluded from the calculation of the maximum permitted quantity of  1  million tonnes.
This means that our farmers have the chance of developing this alternative fuel on a larger scale, if they are able to grow an unlimited quantity of rape on their setaside land.

The coefficient for calculating the soya bean meal equivalent of rape meal and sunflower meal currently used by the Commission  though not, as far as I am aware, laid down anywhere in a legally binding form  is too high.
The reason for this is that the change in the range of oilseed varieties in recent years has resulted in a reduction in the crude proteinfat content.
Amendment No  2  takes these recent developments into account by setting lower coefficients which are legally binding.
The coefficients proposed by the EDN are of course better from the mathematical point of view, but in practical terms they are not really enforceable at the present time.
Nevertheless, we suggest that these coefficients should be reviewed every year and adjusted under the management committee procedure.