This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Frederic Merx:

Mr President, I am really very pleased to be here today to discuss with you this very important topic of how we can improve consumer confidence in the digital environment.

I would like to start my speech by thanking Mrs Roithov and all the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent and very close cooperation  and this is not just a matter of courtesy, but a sincere recognition of very hard work.

I am glad that the Commission and the European Parliament agree on a common line in approaching this very important and challenging issue.
This is clearly an important and ambitious report, and I think we all broadly share the same objectives and analyses of the problems.

The digital economy  and more specifically ecommerce  has great potential to improve consumer welfare by making a greater range of products available, boosting price competition and developing new markets.
It is also central to completing the retail side of the internal market.
At present, retail markets are still fragmented along national lines into minimarkets, as Mrs Roithov indicated.
This makes no sense in the age of ecommerce and the internet.
Ecommerce is changing the face of retail, but only at national level.
The internet is borderless but consumers, businesses and regulators are not.
Fifty per cent of European consumers who have a computer at home have made an ecommerce purchase in the previous  12  months, but only  12  of those with a computer at home bought crossborder.
This indicates the need for action to increase consumer confidence on the retail side of the internal market and the necessity to solve the fragmentation of the market to achieve finally a citizens market.

As you know, since the beginning of the year we have launched two major initiatives for consumers: the consumer policy strategy and the consultation on the review of existing consumer protection legislation.
Our objective as a Commission is to help the EU rise to the challenges of growth and jobs and reconnecting with its citizens.
This objective will be met if, by  2013 , we can credibly demonstrate to all citizens that they can shop from anywhere in the EU  from corner shop to website  confident that they are equally and effectively protected.

The need to improve consumer confidence in the digital economy runs through every aspect of this strategy.
Mrs Roithovs report shows that the obstacles  including regulatory obstacles  are numerous.
My predecessors made progress in tackling some of them with the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive and the Regulation on Consumer Protection Cooperation, which established the European Consumer Centre (ECC) network.
My priority now is to tackle the remaining obstacles, with the reform of existing consumer protection legislation related to consumer contracts.

As you know, we have initiated a broad consultation on the future of consumer protection, and we have started to analyse reactions from the stakeholders.
We are looking forward to Mrs Petres report after the summer.
Your views and your support will be an important reference for our followup work and for specific proposals.
The Commissions followup to the review of the acquis is a basis on which build consumer trust.
The development of standardised consumer contracts may be something to investigate further once this solid base is established.

One of the aims of this exercise is to reduce the regulatory fragmentation of the internal market by targeted harmonisation of issues that cause particular problems for consumers and businesses.
We will, inter alia, consider whether standards and standardisation can play a role in this process.

Similarly for selfregulation.
The Commission has done some important work to establish a best practice model for self and coregulation, and we will continue to do so in the future.
I share your concerns about the interplay of different legislation governing online transactions or digital goods.
There are many precise laws, and consumers and businesses may not be sufficiently aware of their rights and duties in the digital environment.
I will examine how best to clarify these issues with my colleagues, Mrs Reding and Mr McCreevy.

Thanks to your input, we will explore the idea of a practical guide which would cover information society services and help citizens to understand their rights better.
I would also like to thank you for insisting on the importance of enforcement  I fully agree with you.
Quality legislation is not enough if it is not backed up by effective enforcement.
We have set up a network of national enforcers in the European Union and we will now gradually enlarge the network to third country partners in order to enhance its efficiency.

In conclusion, I would like to thank you for your commitment to helping European citizens to enjoy all the benefits of the internal market and the digital economy.
I look forward to working with you to fulfil our common goals and to achieve a citizens internal market.