This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Frederic Cameron:

Mr President, what is the state of the Union?
It rather depends on whose eyes you are looking through.
One thing is for sure: the Union is different if you see it through the eyes of different actors in our society.

If you are an industrialist or financier in the financial sector in one of our major cities, then the growing confidence in the coming of the single currency is probably like manna from heaven to you.
Your longterm future is taking a more stable, secure turn; planning your resource allocation, your investment decisions and prospects for growth is easier and less speculative; transaction costs look to largely disappear whilst current monetary orthodoxy seems fairly sure to keep inflation to minimal levels and to ensure the downward pressure on individual and corporate taxes.
Not too bad...

If, however, you are one of Europes  1820  million unemployed, the state of the Union looks pretty dire.
The global market, the revolution of the information society, mean about as much to you as the steam train must have meant to the horse and cart.
One thing they know is that on the back of the global market and the information society, jobs have been lost.
The socially excluded, the unemployed, the underemployed can be excused for eyeing the forthcoming employment summit with some scepticism or, indeed, indifference.
They have been there before; seen that, done that, got the Tshirt.

If we are going to tackle that scepticism and indifference, the employment summit must succeed.
We want concrete proposals, real downtoearth action which will create jobs.

I understand that some in the media have already written their headlines for the employment summit:  No pot of gold, job summit fails .
Let us start talking with a bit more common sense.
We all know that there is not a pot of gold waiting to be had.
Most of us know that just throwing money at the problem is not, in itself, sufficient or even sensible.
Where money can make a difference and where we can find it, then it must be provided.
This Parliament will, I hope, put its money where its mouth is when we vote tomorrow for the employment package for small and mediumsized enterprises.
To find that money we will have to reduce spending in other areas  hard for us as a Parliament to agree to.
But certainly my group is determined, because employment is our number one priority.

This is only small beer, though.
It can help by adding value to what is being done at national level to create jobs.
Without question, the best way that we can aid job creation is to really begin the process of coordinating our economic and employment policies.
If the job summit can begin that process and provide a package of support measures as well, then we may be in the business of giving real prospects and opportunities to those who need our help.

So what is the state of the Union if you are a business operating in the single market?
Life is still, unfortunately, beset with a fair degree of red tape, obstruction and lack of information.
Judging by the complaints I get from business in my constituency in North London alone, there are ongoing problems of VAT; protectionism still abounds when it comes to product licences and patents; there is a marked lack of enforcement.

Seen through the eyes of us as consumers, be it from the North of Finland, the South of Greece, the West of Ireland or the East of Austria, the single market has provided a greater variety of better quality goods.
In the last two or three years, we have seen the danger of adopting a less than rigorous approach to consumer protection and public health at European level.
The BSE crisis focused attention on the paucity of the lowest common denominator approach to consumer protection.
In this context, this Parliament has done the European consumer a great service by insisting that the European Commission reorganize its services, policies and resources to give a high priority to consumers and public health.
We will very shortly be putting the Commission response to our recommendations under the spotlight in this Chamber.
We recognize as well that the Council in Amsterdam acknowledged the need for a revamped consumer and health policy in the new treaty and we hope that it will meet its obligations in full by supporting Parliament and the Commission to restore consumer confidence in the fact that their food and other products are not just safe but wholesome and of a high standard.

If you are an animal ferreting away in your European habitat, the state of the Union does not look at all rosy just now.
However, you might see the European Commission as your friendly gamekeeper, given it had just announced infringement proceedings against a great majority of the  15  EU Member States for failing to transpose the habitats directive into national law.

Those involved in the struggle for the environment know that the recession which engulfed Europe postRio saw the shameless jettisoning of many of the commitments made there in terms of habitats, climate change, marine pollution and much more.
There is now a further opportunity, following the New York meeting, to join with the rest of the UN Member States at Kyoto in December to expedite change.
This is not a Europeonly struggle.
But our position, which I hope is a progressive one, can be influential, not just in keeping pressure on countries in the developing world to pay attention to the environment in their economic programmes but, crucially, to force the United States to understand its responsibility and its role as the worlds leading nation to take action with us.

If you happen to be one of the growing band of drug smugglers or international criminals or the like, there is still, sad to say, gold to be had in Europe.
For them the EU and its Member States still offer opportunities to be exploited.
Each Member State is experiencing its own increase in international crime of one kind or another, the rapid and tragic growth in the drugs trade, terrorism and the trade in arms or the growing malevolent trade in humans.
If you examine the extent and the scale of these areas of activity, as this Parliament did in just one committee on enquiry into fraud involving goods in transit, it becomes clear that the only way to combat this sort of multicountry crossborder trade is through international cooperation.

This is why the role of the European Union is so important for the future development of information sharing, enforcement authorities, policing strategies and cooperation across borders.
It is only by working together, with agreed strategies, that we can have a real impact in those areas of the world which need help and support to reduce their domestic dependence on the drugs trade in particular.
Europes citizens, who quite understandably worry about the drugs culture in which their young are growing up, and which is responsible for so much of the violence in our society, have much to gain through greater European cooperation in this area.

If you are a small banana grower in the Caribbean, you could be excused for thinking that the Europeans are the lowest of the low.
They came to your idyllic island many years ago in the quest for resources.
Those same Europeans encouraged the change of production to the multicropping banana.
You and your family depend for your living on the banana industry and now the WTO, at US insistence, has ruled to cut out the privileged trade access to Europe for your bananas in favour of the dollar banana.
Where is your livelihood now?
The European Union must renegotiate the existing Lom Convention in the coming years and we must seek a new partnership with our African Caribbean and Pacific neighbours.

The state of the Union also looks quite different to the citizens of eastern and central Europe.
Those from Hungary, Poland, The Czech Republic, Slovenia and Estonia who see their way being expedited into the marble palaces of the European Union must have a view quite different from those who, if not exactly excluded, certainly feel at arms length from the process.

For Europes current  370  million citizens, enlargement of the EU to a further  11  countries in the foreseeable future is a huge leap into the unknown with fears of dwindling support for them through the EU budget, agricultural and structural funds and cohesion support.
There is a big job of work to be done by all of us engaged in the politics of Europe to make clear our determination: firstly, not to isolate or marginalize or leave out any of our partner states in eastern and central Europe but, secondly, to point out to our own citizens the costs of nonenlargement  the economic damage, lack of stability, potential for conflict, regional disintegration, environmental degradation and so much more.

If you are a black person in Europe, it has always been tough.
Recent years, however, have been grim.
An increase in the politics of hate, jealously and scapegoating have led to more racist abuse, harassment, attacks and, most tragically, murders.
Thankfully, Europes new treaty now contains the broadest possible antidiscrimination clause.
Unthinkable just nine months ago.
The European Year Against Racism and AntiSemitism, an observatory in Vienna to combat racism and the treaty competence  a fitting way to remember  1997 .

The state of the Union is not simple, its sometimes bad, sometimes good.
It could hardly be otherwise.
It is, however, incumbent on us to take the work seriously.
We must get on and help the Union to find concrete ways forward on employment and we must endorse the Amsterdam Treaty, warts and all.
We must enable the countries of Cyprus, Central and Eastern Europe to join us in our common endeavours.