This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Amy White:

Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur, David Martin, for what I regard as a very rich report on aid for trade.
I am very glad that he has referred to the Millennium Development Goals, because they represent our guiding idea and targets.
I agree with him that free trade, whilst a necessary condition for development, is not a magic wand, just as I agree with him that aid for trade, whilst a necessary component of any development strategy, is not a panacea.

I believe that this report expresses a very strong commitment to the aid for trade agenda which I fully share.
I have also read the very useful suggestions and guidance regarding the content of the EU joint aid for trade strategy, for which I am very grateful.
Furthermore, I welcome Parliaments engagement in this process.

Since  2005 , the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission have developed a clear common vision on the main principles of aid for trade.
We all agree that trade can be an important catalyst for growth and poverty reduction in developing countries, but the successful integration of developing countries into the world trading system requires more than better market access and strengthening of international rules.
In this respect the General Affairs Council conclusions of  14  and  15  May this year recall the crucial role of aid for trade.

The challenge we are now facing is to put these principles into practice in the context of the EU aid for trade strategy on which the Commission and Member States are jointly working.
This strategy should set out a roadmap to meet our financial pledges, give guidance to improve the effectiveness of our aid, provide a framework on monitoring and reporting of aid for trade, and address the capacity of the Commission and Member States to deliver aid for trade.
The strategy will be ready in October of this year and will then be presented at the WTO aid for trade review, so this Parliaments report is extremely timely.

I would like to address some specific concerns raised in the report, and first of all the issue of the broadening of the scope of aid for trade in relation to the EU financial pledges.
Let me emphasise that the credibility of our pledges is of great importance and make it crystal clear that there will be no changes to the scope of our pledge.
The EUR  2  billion target remains related to the categories of trade policy and trade development.

I attach great importance to the wider aid for trade agenda, which includes building productive capacities beyond trade development, infrastructure and adjustment aid.
For these areas, which are very capitalintensive, we need clear political commitment to do more, but let me stress once again that these efforts will not be counted in relation to our financial pledges.

Regarding the lack of additional resources for EDF funding to ACP countries, we would be happy to do more, but the Commission does not decide on the budget for the EDF.
EU Member States do that.
There are limited exceptions only and these are also approved by Member States and dedicated to very specific purposes such as adjustment arising from the sugar reform.

Regarding the integrated framework, I am glad to confirm what I announced in Hong Kong.
The Commission is ready to commit EUR  10  million over the first two years to the multilateral part of the enhanced integrated framework.
In addition to this, the Commission will complement the multilateral window with substantial bilateral and regional funding to implement activities identified through the integrated framework and prioritised by the respective partner governments.
We will also provide human resources and capacity in the field to contribute to a better functioning of the integrated framework.

The issue of adjustment aid is rightly highlighted in the report.
However, I do not agree that the EPA negotiations deserve a special mention in this context.
Adjustment aid is relevant in relation to all external trade shocks.
They may result from trade negotiations but could also be a consequence of unilateral reform as in the case of sugar.
In any outcome of the EPA negotiations, the implementation of obligations of ACP partners will be phased in over a very long period and this will facilitate adjustment and identify requirements that we need to help meet.

Finally, we noted your request to look into the IMFs trade integration mechanism as part of the EU aid for trade strategy.
We think that this is more appropriately addressed in cooperation with other international donors, for example as part of the global aid for trade review at WTO level.

Let me once again express my deep appreciation for this Parliaments political support for aid for trade, as well as our willingness to cooperate with the European Parliament to make further progress, and I look forward to doing so.