This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Amy McNabb:

.
Mr President, firstly I should like to express my thanks to the rapporteur Mrs Fraga Estvez and the Committee on Fisheries and to Mrs Ries and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety for a constructive report on a Community approach to ecolabelling for fisheries products.
I am pleased at the high degree of interest they have shown in the Commissions communication.
In fact, the report is a fitting and valuable contribution to the debate on ecolabelling.
It contains many elements and ideas that are helpful to strengthen further the debate.

The Commission indeed attaches great importance to the development of a consistent policy on ecolabelling and to a consistent integration of environmental concerns into the Common Fisheries Policy.
Together with other actions proposed by the Commission, such as the implementation of sustainability which leads to sustainable yields, or the promotion of more environmentfriendly fishing methods, I see ecolabelling as a complementary tool for a more environmentfriendly fisheries policy.
At the same time it satisfies the interests of both consumers and the industry.

I would like to thank Mr Morillon for his description of ecolabelling as a positive sanction supporting sustainable behaviour.
Ecolabelling is a relatively new approach in the context of sustainable fisheries management.
It is based on a voluntary and participative approach, through which fishermen will in future, within the limits of the standards set by legislation, define requirements and implement them.
Such a voluntary approach has been adopted in other fields, particularly in that of food safety with the enforcing of the HACCP system, and has proved highly successful.
I thank you for lending your support to that approach.

I am happy to see that the Commission and Parliament share the same views on the overall objectives of ecolabelling schemes, on the principles and features that credible schemes should contain, and on the need to address properly a complex and currently rather anarchic reality.
Traceability, transparency, a sound scientific basis, and thirdparty certification are essential.
I see these as the prerequisites that will help us make the most of ecolabelling schemes and that will contribute to the sustainability of fisheries.

In the Commission we opted for launching a debate on the right approach rather than proposing operational provisions at too early a stage.
I understand that many of you feel that the Commission should have been more assertive.
However, I am convinced that it was wise to proceed as we did.

Due to the originality of the approach, the ambitious objective we have and the controversy that issues like these invariably raise, it would have been premature to bring forward an operational proposal as early as June last year.
I assure you that our choice to launch a debate first has proven to be successful.
It has facilitated and accelerated the exchange of views and relevant experience between all sides concerned.
As a result we now have a sound and almost complete picture of the situation, on which we can base further Community action.

The active participation of the Community in the FAO debate has given us an early advantage, and by launching the debate and participating in fruitful exchanges of views we have strengthened our leading position in this matter.

The definition of the notion of sustainability is at the heart of the debate.
Many of the parties involved have inquired about relevant criteria.
To follow up on this, DG Fisheries has set up a group of independent experts to work on that very issue.
The expert group is on the point of concluding its work.
Based on that work the Commission will draft guidelines for the settingup of ecolabelling schemes and will propose a list of minimum requirements against which private ecolabelling schemes could be assessed.

I have taken note of the resolutions request for a communication to be addressed to the Council and to Parliament within the next six months.
I have no difficulty in reverting to Parliament.
However, at this point in time, the shape and form of the Commissions proposals have still to be determined.

Looking at the broader picture, I believe it would be more appropriate to come back to Parliament once the whole consultation exercise has been concluded.
That would allow us to carry out a thorough assessment of the following discussions and consultations: a second shareholder consultation, to be held before the end of this year, which would be an opportunity to gather views on the future guidelines; further discussions in the Council in the months to come, which will conclude the current discussion phase; and, additionally, the report from the expert group, which will form the basis for the preparation of operational provisions that could be tabled during the course of next year.

All this will give us a further opportunity to discuss the future Community approach towards ecolabelling on a consolidated and even more informed basis.
That whole process should lead to the adoption of specific and concrete decisions.

With regard to Amendments  1  and  2 , the Commission believes that ecolabelling is a tool that will contribute to a more sustainable exploitation of fish stocks and improve the effectiveness of the Common Fisheries Policy.

With regard to Amendment  3 , it reiterates some of the advantages of adopting the third option for establishing minimum requirements for voluntary ecolabelling schemes, as mentioned in the Commission communication.

I thank you for this report and the wider debate generated on ecolabelling.
I am confident that at the end of this process we can put into operation a proper basis for ecolabelling schemes that should have farreaching and positive effects.