This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Annette Bush:

Firstly, Mr President, I should like to congratulate you on your election and wish you every success during your term of office.
Cuirimse cad mile filte roimh Taoiseach na hEireann agus Aire Gnothai na hEorpa ata anseo chun deire oifiguil a chuir le Uachtaranacht Eireann don Comhphobail.

I warmly welcome the outgoing PresidentinOffice of the Council and his European Affairs Minister Gay Mitchell on their formal visit to the European Parliament to bring to a conclusion Irelands presidency of the Union.
We are all very pleased at the success of Irelands presidency.
To the Taoiseach and his colleagues in government and the many hundreds of civil servants who have been involved we say a very sincere thank you and we are very proud of you for a job well done.

I am also pleased to say that the summit in Dublin was one of the more successful summit meetings in recent years.
Solid progress was recorded on the four major priorities listed by the Irish presidency at the beginning of its term of office and approved by Parliament.
which were the single currency, the fight against crime and drugs, the Intergovernmental Conference and the tackling of unemployment.
The establishment of a single currency in less than two years time is now firmly on course; the stability and growth pact ensures that the financial markets, investors and the general public can all be confident that the Euro will be a stable currency and will not be subject to fluctuations because of shortterm policies being pursued by one or more governments within the new currency zone.

I welcome the progress made in Dublin on strengthening cooperation between European Union countries in the fight against organized crime and international drug smuggling.
The illegal drug trade is responsible for a great deal of misery in each of our countries and crime against people and property to fund drug habits means that large numbers of our citizens are living in constant fear for their personal safety.
Those ultimately responsible for supplying the illegal drugs now available in communities throughout the Union have long operated on an international basis and effective action to curb their activities also demands a coordinated international response.

The Union should allocate resources from its annual budget to intercept smugglers as the drugs are introduced to the Union, to control the distribution of substances used in the manufacture of drugs within the Union and to investigate the moneylaundering activities of the drug barons.
The draft revision of the Treaties which was presented to the Dublin Summit by the Intergovernmental Conference represents a solid basis from which to proceed to the final and most controversial stage of the negotiations on a new Treaty.

The agreement at the summit on the draft revision of the Treaties was a major breakthrough and a special word of thanks is owed to those involved, in particular the government representative Noel Dorr, for the leading role he played in this respect.
One of the issues still to be decided in these negotiations concerns the number of European Commissioners to be appointed in the future.
It is vitally important to preserve the political legitimacy of the Commission in all Member States and in the eyes of each national electorate.
In the long run this will only be possible if each country has a full seat in the College of Commissioners.

A second institutional issue still to be decided concerns the future operation of the presidency of the Council of Ministers.
It has been suggested that the small European countries lack the resources and the ability to undertake the onerous task of presiding over the affairs of the Union and that the present system of rotating the sixmonth presidencies should be abolished.
Well, the record of the Irish presidency during the last six months and in particular during the Dublin Summit, like the previous Irish presidency, demonstrates clearly that smaller Member States can organize efficient and successful presidencies and in many cases can broker agreements which larger Member States are unable to achieve during their presidencies.
The experience of the last six months suggests that there is a strong case for preserving the present system of rotating the Council presidency.