This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Nancy McNabb:

Mr President, what we have to consider first of all when we have a look at the context of the  1997  budget are the tremendous difficulties which the Council President referred to before the votes, just before our lunch break.
We have Member States who are cutting back or keeping a freeze on their national budgets as the public sector deficits have been cut back, not only to be competitive in the global economy but also for the rationale of the single currency towards the end of this decade.

Speaking on behalf of my group, I think we are right, therefore, in making sure that we act responsibly in this budgetary process and we contribute towards that goal ourselves and indeed the position of the European Peoples Party right from the start of this process, after our Budget Committee votes ten days ago, has been to underline two particular principles.

The first is that we go for a zero growth budget because that is in line with Parliaments commitment of responsibility in the budgetary process and therefore we, in contrast to the Socialists, will not be voting for the Committee on Regional Policys amendment to be voted back but we will be voting for responsibility in the structural funds, as in other parts of the budget.

Secondly, perhaps as important, if not more important, is to vote in terms of keeping the commitments which Parliament has entered into and particularly the interinstitutional agreement.
We do not agree that we should go to Article  203  which in essence  if Mr Wynn would admit this  would actually rip up the interinstitutional agreement.
We think that we should actually use the agreements which we enter into, try and ensure, as now, that the strategy of Parliament evolves between first and second reading and encourage the Council to come along with Article  12 ( 2 ) to have a discussion with us so that we can then revise the perspectives, but within the framework of the interinstitutional agreement, rather than simply tearing it up and saying we dont use this .
It would to me, and I think to my Group as a whole, certainly be the wrong step for Parliament to take, while we are in the process of negotiating the Intergovernmental Conference, as it would show us being an irresponsible partner in the budgetary process.
We are in favour of awareness at this particular time of the difficulties of the European Union, both in terms of a budgetary freeze and of negotiating within the frameworks that we have already negotiated.

There is however the question of how we can actually achieve that within the frameworks which have been set out.
We believe that the proposal put forward by the general rapporteur of putting  300  million in a general reserve, with  100  million specifically allocated to Ireland so it is absolutely copperbottomed, provides the guarantee that Ireland will have one hundred million at the end of the budgetary process, in whichever category we finally allocate it.
That must be a real fundamental principle.

But, as for the allocation of the rest of the  300  million, that will be in the final analysis for the budgetary authority to decide at the end of second reading.
But in terms of job creation, if you think that simply by putting another  100  million on the transEuropean networks we are going to solve the unemployment problem in the European Union then I am afraid that is not our view on this side of the House.
What we must think of in this negotiation  and I direct my final remarks to you, Mr PresidentinOffice  is that we must have understanding and flexibility from your institution as part of the coauthority of the budgetary process, to make sure the things that you have signed and that we have signed are things which we can actually make work in practice.
Situations have changed since we signed up in  1993 ; we must make sure that it can survive as a living entity.
Otherwise the risk is that, when it comes to the revision of the Financial Perspective next year, you will find a more than reluctant partner on this side of the budgetary authority when it comes to continuing with something which is rigid and clearly will be unoperational in the longer term.