This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Marc Merx:

PresidentinOffice of the Council.
 Mr President, I am grateful for this opportunity to address the European Parliament once again and at such a crucial time.

As we speak, representatives from  193  countries are gathered in a conference centre in Copenhagen, talking, arguing, negotiating and trying to meet the expectations of millions of people around the world.
In just two days, the UN climate conference will be over.
Soon we will be looking back at a meeting that was crucial, not only for the EU but for the world; a meeting that was decisive for those who cannot grow their crops because of a lack of water, decisive for those who have lost their homes in tornadoes or floods, and decisive for those who are vainly building walls against a sea level that rises every year.

We know what is at risk, so why is it then so difficult to act?
Is it because we fear any change of our way of life?
Still, we know that if we keep on using the worlds resources the way we do, our current way of life will no longer be an option and we will face even more drastic changes.
We have much greater things than our everyday comfort to fear.

The fight against climate change has been at the top of the agenda throughout the Swedish Presidency, at all our European Council meetings and in all our summits with the Unions major partners.
As you probably know, we adopted a comprehensive mandate at our October European Council to keep the EUs leading position in the climate negotiations.
We agreed on a longterm goal for emissions reductions of  8095  by  2050  and we renewed our offer to reduce emissions   30 , provided that others make comparable efforts.
We agreed on emission reductions for international transport and, despite resistance from some corners, we put figures on the global financial need in developing countries to fight climate change.
Last week  after weeks of bilateral consultations  we took yet another step: a collectively puttogether financial package earmarked for the fast start of climate action in developing countries, offering EUR  7 . 2  billion for the coming three years.

I know that this is not enough.
Therefore I must say that, while I am satisfied that the European Council could agree to this step, the time is now ripe for other developed countries to join us.

So, what do we need to do in Copenhagen?
We need binding commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, not just from the developed countries, but also from developing countries, to ensure that global warming keeps below the  2  C target that science tells us is necessary.

I have sat down with the Indian and Chinese leadership.
I know what they say about this.
Why should they agree to develop clean and green, when we have polluted the world for decades?
That is one way of looking at it, but the problem is this: the developed world cannot solve the problem alone.
Emissions from the developing world are already starting to exceed those from the developed world.
That is why we must work together to solve the problem.
From our side, we can compensate for years of irresponsible behaviour.
We can help finance climate action in the developing world.
The European Union took its responsibility last week.
It is not the form that matters in Copenhagen but the substance.
We can be satisfied if we get a deal on emissions reductions and on financing, and a commitment to start immediate action and, more importantly, we can start fighting climate change.

Last year, we were suddenly faced with the most serious financial crisis since the  1930 s.
The ground was literally shaking under our feet.
Suddenly it became clear to us how interlinked the financial markets were and how interdependent we all were in finding a common response.
In the course of only a few months, governments in the EU adopted extraordinary support measures.
It was a fast and impressive response but it came with a price.
Our aggregated deficit in public finances now amounts to almost  7  of GDP  over three times more than last year.
Twenty Member States are experiencing excessive deficit procedures.
So the followup to the economic and financial crisis has, quite naturally, been another main priority throughout this autumn.

Let me briefly touch on what we have done.
At the end of October, we agreed on a fiscal exit strategy, and at last weeks European Council, we agreed on principles for exiting from financial support schemes.
In addition, we agreed on a fundamentally new structure for financial supervision in Europe.
When financial flows are international, supervision can no longer be national.
Now it is up to the European Parliament to agree to the final steps.

It was also clear to us that the bonus culture could not continue in the way in which people had become used to.
I am pleased that the EU managed to convince the G 20  to agree on farreaching changes to this policy.
The new rules will reinforce the need for a link between result and reward.

The economic and financial crisis hit us hard but we have shown the ability to act and we have strengthened our resistance.
Once we have secured our recovery, the EU will stand stronger, thanks to the measures we have adopted.

The Swedish Presidency took place during a period of institutional change.
When we took over on  1  July, this Parliament was newly elected.
We had not yet appointed a President of the European Commission.
The outcome of the then pending Irish referendum was uncertain.
It was not clear whether the Treaty of Lisbon would be ratified by all Member States.
It was not even clear whether it could enter into force during the Swedish Presidency.

Then the drama unravelled.
In close consultation with this Parliament, Jos Manuel Barroso was appointed President of the European Commission for a second term.
The Presidency now had a stable counterpart in the Commission to work with.
The outcome of the Irish referendum was a victory for Ireland.
It was a victory for European cooperation.
It brought us one step closer to the Treaty of Lisbon.

But then the unexpected happened.
At a late stage, the Czech President came with new conditions before he would sign.
We had to handle these requests in a way that did not trigger similar conditions from other Member States and we managed to do this at the European Council in October.
A few days later, the Czech President signed.
Immediately after the signature, I started to consult my colleagues again.
We had to agree on highranking positions  on the President of the European Council, and to nominate the High Representative.
I am not exaggerating when I say it was a relief when all preparations were finalised on  1  December.
The Treaty of Lisbon could finally enter into force.

Now, the European Union will be more efficient.
It will have better tools to fight climate change and influence the global economic agenda.
The new President of the European Council will ensure continuity.
The High Representative will assure coordination in our external relations.
We will have a more democratic Union with the greater involvement of the European Parliament and of our national parliaments.
A new era for the European Union has begun.

When I stood here before you on  15  July, we were still in the throes of the financial and economic crisis.
There was uncertainty on the transition of the new treaty.
We did not know whether we would manage to unite ourselves and encourage others on the not so long  but very winding  road to Copenhagen.

With the European Council meeting last week, the Swedish Presidency has delivered on all five of its priorities: a strong EU mandate for climate change; followup of the economic and financial crisis; the EU Baltic Sea Strategy; the Stockholm Programme for justice and home affairs; reinforcing the EU as a global actor, including enlargement, and a new external action service.
As I said, with the Treaty of Lisbon in place, a new era has begun in the European Union.

I would like to end by thanking all of you.
The Presidency needed the help of the European Parliament in tackling the challenges we were facing.
Thank you for giving us that help.

I would also like to thank the Commission, and especially Jos Manuel Barroso.
I have probably spent more than a healthy amount of time with Jos Manuel this autumn.
He has been a tremendous support to me and to the Swedish Presidency.

Finally, I would like to thank the Member States for their will to put aside differences and start compromising  with the best for Europe at heart  to find solutions that are not only of benefit to them, but to Europe as a whole.
This unity is our strength.