This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Marc Reid:

Mr President, these are major occasions in the life of our Parliament and we should not overlook the fact that President Santer is here as well as the PresidentinOffice and I welcome them both.
I would like to thank the Commission President for his very skilful and diplomatic address.
However, we are mainly here to talk about the UK presidency.

We have to recognize that it started with a great deal of goodwill.
The change of government was welcomed right across Europe, not least in Scotland where the Conservatives suffered total wipeout at the general election.
But I would say to the PresidentinOffice that he should not mistake the sighs of relief for gasps of admiration.
The greatest asset the Labour Government has is that it is not the old Conservative Government.

In saying this, I do not want to be grudging.
We welcome the change of tone.
This Parliament appreciates the fact that we have had Ministers such as Robin Cook, Clare Short and many others addressing Parliament and attending its committee meetings.
That is very worthwhile.
We all remember that handbag that Mrs Thatcher wielded when she banged the table and said:  I want my money back .
Well, the handbag has gone but the rebate and the claim for rebate remain from the UK, and from Germany.

In trying to appraise the record of the UK presidency we have to match the rhetoric and the achievement and ask ourselves what we will remember the UK presidency for.
It departed, with perhaps unfortunate symbolism, from Waterloo Station six months ago.
There were two big events in the last six months.
The first was on  2  and  3  May when we assembled to welcome the launch of the single currency on behalf of  11  Member States.
It was supremely ironic that the British Finance Minister, Gordon Brown, who presided over that in Brussels could not be the team manager but had to play in the left outside position because he was not part of it.

We have waited in vain today for an indication of commitment to the cause of the single currency, which I and most of us think is the most important aspect of European integration.
A colleague, Mr Puerta, also mentioned the tooclose association with the United States.
On the Iraq crisis the hotline to the White House was operative long before there was any thought of calls to the Elyse Palace or anywhere else.
This Clintonization of policy is regrettable, and I have to mention the disgrace of the secret importation of nuclear waste from Georgia to Scotland.
The citizens of Europe were not even informed until it had arrived.

There were also some nondecisions.
What happened to quotahopping which was supposed to be sorted out in the British presidency?
What about the compensation for the farmers who are desperate at the strength of the pound and are looking for compensation?

But let us look ahead to the vision of Europe.
That is what Prime Minister Blair talks about, and all of us are concerned about it.
What do we make of the phrase a Europe of nation states ?
Was this a major faux pas ?
By that I mean a John Major faux pas .
When John Major talked about the nation states and subsidiarity, he meant that it stopped at Dover.
Nothing that applied below that level was in his mind.
It would be unfair for us to accuse Prime Minister Blair of that.
He has recognized the historic nations of the United Kingdom.
Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland are all to have their own parliamentary democracy.
That is a transformation which parallels those of Gorbachev in his day.

I finish by drawing on an analogy with the World Cup which is on all our television screens.
The Scottish football fans have got it about right.
They have been welcomed across Europe for their positive contribution.
These are the same fans that voted for Home Rule for Scotland in the referendum last year.
That was welcomed at the time.
Their behaviour is welcome now.
I would urge Prime Minister Blair to turn his back firmly on the equivalent of Les Hooligans  the Fleet Street tabloids with their constant Brussels bashing  and take a leaf out of the book of the Tartan Army whose vision, like mine, is to participate, to be there and to create a true Europe of the peoples.