This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Amy White:

.
Mr President, I should like to congratulate Mr VidalQuadras on his excellent report.
This report demonstrates why high energy efficiency needs to be on the agenda of the European Union.

Constantly increasing energy efficiency levels is the most important viable longterm policy in order to achieve a sustainable, competitive and secure energy policy for Europe.

I am pleased to say that the Commission is already in line with most of the calls from Parliament.
Indeed, we will integrate your considerations into our forthcoming Action Plan on Energy Efficiency, together with the results of the public hearing.
I expect the action plan to be adopted just after the summer break.
In addition, these considerations will be part of the Commissions work in the broader context.

I note the call on the Commission to be consistent with existing legislation.
I agree.
The action plan will build on existing legislation, and will focus on practical measures.
I also agree with your request for regular updates on the state of implementation of the directives dealing with energy efficiency.
Proper implementation and enforcement will determine the success of any EU policy.
This will, therefore, be the first priority in our action plan.

You rightly point out that in these times of high energy prices, the  9  consumption reduction target over nine years in the directive on enduse efficiency and energy services may well be on the low side.
On this issue, I would like to mention the following: the Commission is launching a comprehensive study on the energy efficiency potential in the different Member States.
This study will give a clear overview of national potentials and the Commission will compare this with the ambition levels in the Member States.
In this way, we hope to increase the ambition levels of the Member States.

In relation to financial issues, we work with international financing institutions to integrate energy efficiency into their lending strategy.
The refurbishment of existing buildings, with an emphasis on social housing, is already part of the European Regional Development Fund in the new programming period.
However, it is up to the Member States to ensure that they use this possibility.

I agree that fiscal measures can be a very effective instrument to further energy efficiency.
Regarding financial incentives to speed up market transformation, the Commission is considering a number of options in the impact assessment report on the action plan.

I agree that public authorities should lead by example, in particular through their public procurement policy.
They can make a substantial difference towards market transformation.
We will closely follow how Member States integrate energy efficiency requirements into public procurement guidelines, as they are required to do under the Energy Services Directives.

In this respect, I also agree with your call for more public information and education, and this will make up the third part of our action plan  behavioural changes.

I will comment briefly on minimum efficiency standards for energyusing products, as well as labelling.
The dynamic setting of minimum efficiency standards is embedded in the Ecodesign Directive.
At the same time, we need to ensure predictability for investment planning by the industry.
As regards labelling, this will also be looked at in the action plan in connection with awarenessraising.

I am encouraged by your call on the Commission and the Member States to deploy more initiatives to increase energy efficiency in transport.
All options should be seriously considered.
The Commission will soon be coming forward with a midterm review of the transport policy, and transport will also be one of the areas for action in the Energy Efficiency Action Plan.

On external relations, I agree that energy efficiency should be  in fact, it already is  a part of our relations with both energy suppliers and with the consuming regions.
Dialogues on this issue are being held with Russia, OPEC, the United States, China, Japan and India.
However, there is room for more action, both to make full use of the competitive advantage that we already have through existing technologies, but also because it is important in fighting climate change and ensuring security of supply.

I think there is complete agreement between your report and our work, and I would ask you to continue your strong support for our work in the energy efficiency field.

I should like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs once again for this excellent report.