This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Jennifer MacLeod:

Member of the Commission.
Mr President, let me first welcome, also on behalf of my colleague, Benita FerreroWaldner, the remarkable work of the two rapporteurs as well the constructive analysis and comments made by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Development and the Committee on International Trade concerning the different aspects and perspectives for future agreements with these regions.

The conclusion of association agreements with Central America and the Andean Community is a longstanding strategic objective for both regions, confirmed repeatedly by the Heads of State and Government at the summits in Guadalajara and Vienna.

With the negotiation of these agreements, the EU shows its commitment to the region and its determination to reinforce its relations with all Latin American countries.
Europe and Latin America are natural partners, and closer ties with Central America and the Andean Community will contribute to a stronger partnership, both politically and economically.

The agreements will be negotiated on a regiontoregion basis in order to provide further impetus to the regional integration processes both in Central America and in the Andean Community.
As repeatedly emphasised, also by the European Parliament, regional integration is key to political and social stability.
It will also help to insert these regions more successfully into the world economy by developing larger and more stable economies able to attract investment.
Nevertheless, it is worth dispelling the idea that the EU tries to impose its own model: regional integration should be developed by each region on the basis of its own ambitions and agenda.

The association agreements are envisaged as comprehensive agreements, embracing the whole array of the multifaceted relations of the EU with both regions: political dialogue, cooperation and trade.

The respect and promotion of democratic principles, fundamental human rights, the rule of law and good governance will remain at the core of our relations with Central America and the Andean Community.
In addition, the Commission is of the opinion that the association agreements should pay particular attention to the effective implementation of internationallyagreed standards in the human rights, social, core labour and environmental fields in order to enhance sustainable development.

Concerning political dialogue, these agreements will aim to tackle a wide range of matters, such as climate change, energy, migration and the fight against drugs.
These are vital not only for both our regions but also for the entire planet.
An enhanced dialogue with Central America and the Andean Community aims to seek constructive engagement towards effective multilateralism and international governance that may respond to the world challenges of the  21 st century.

The political chapter of the association agreements will be accompanied by measures aiming to enhance biregional trade and investment in a balanced and fair way.
This should be pursued not only through the progressive and reciprocal liberalisation of trade in goods and services, but also by establishing a fair and transparent regulatory framework.
Asymmetries between our regions should also be taken into account.
The trade part of the agreement will be fully consistent with WTO rules and obligations, while going beyond its basic rules, so as to maximise the mutual and longterm benefits of biregional trade liberalisation.

Cooperation between the two sides is to be deeply rooted in the global objectives and principles established by our development policy, such as the European Consensus on Development, as well as by the international agreements to which we are party, including the Millennium Development Goals, and the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness.
Social cohesion will be a priority.
The cooperation chapter should reflect the willingness to work jointly and to exchange experiences.
It should also reflect solidarity towards the poorest and most excluded people.

Let me conclude with an overview on the preparation of these negotiations: the draft negotiating directives were adopted by the Commission on  6  December  2006  and are currently under discussion with Member States.
The Commission hopes to have the negotiating directives adopted and, if conditions allow, actually to start negotiating with these two Latin American subregions within the first half of this year.
If we manage to stick to this ambitious timetable, it will be largely thanks to your support and determination to enhance relations between the EU and Latin America, in particular with these two regions.