This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Katarina Finlayson:

Mr President, we are all agreed that Mr Schulz has produced an excellent and comprehensive report on the measures which need to be taken to combat child sex tourism and to reinforce the prevention of the sexual abuse and exploitation of children.
The assessment of the main problems and the measures proposed have been somewhat overshadowed by the substantial interest in paragraph  29  of the resolution.
This paragraph calls on a judge at the European Court of Justice to resign his European post due to his earlier personal decision when he was Minister for Justice to permit the early release of Marc Diedres who is suspected of multiple child murders.

I understand and respect the arguments of those who say that the European Parliament has no competence or right to make such a demand.
Indeed, we are all being drawn into an internal political debate but as the rapporteur says, the consequences of the decision were indeed dreadful.
There is a moral and political responsibility which cannot be swept under the carpet.
It is very clear that the European Parliament does not have the power to dismiss a judge at the Court of Justice.
However, we have a moral obligation to draw attention to this situation and we have to stand up and be counted on an issue as important as this.

Many other important arguments and proposals are put forward in this resolution and my group is particularly pleased that at the outset of the report Mr Schulz stresses the decisive role of the family in ensuring the balanced development of children.
The family should represent the safe haven for the child.
In certain cases it is also where child abuse takes place and we know that children have been abused in schools and institutions.
The veil of secrecy on abuse is now lifting and no country can take pride in what all too often children have been subjected to.
The ultimate crime is to do nothing, to neglect our duty to protect children everywhere including those who are forced into child prostitution.

We need a range of services to protect our children and an earlywarning system to alert us to potential dangers.
We are fifteen Member States with different traditions but working together we can help to close the door on child abuse and ensure there is no hiding place in the EU for child offenders.
It is the least we can do for the parents and families of all the children who have been abducted, including Julie, Melissa and Lubna.
We must break down legal barriers to harmonize those concepts of criminal legislation in the Member States which reduce our capacity to protect our children.
We should try to harmonize the criminal offence of paedophile activities, the criminal offence of child sex tourism and child pornography and there should be comparable penalties for such crimes throughout the Member States.

It is appropriate that data banks be set up at national level concerning persons found guilty of paedophile activities and everything possible must be done to make it easier for children to provide evidence to the court without fear.
We must also support the setting up of the European Centre for missing children.
The Centre for Missing and Exploited Children in Washington is an example.
Every country should support the telephone helpline for children.

I am highly critical of the way in which children can be abused for advertising purposes and I strongly hold the view that the rights of children must be respected.
The case of the young British au pair who was found guilty in the United States of fatally injuring a child in her care has raised other concerns.
There is a Council of Europe Convention on au pairs but very few countries have signed.
Therefore, I call on the Council now to ask the Commission to draw up a European Union regulation on the role and duties of au pairs but, more importantly, on the duties and responsibility of the families who invite them into their homes.

In conclusion, I want to emphasize what is said in paragraph  30  of the resolution: all those who have to take decisions which may affect the safety or wellbeing of children must exercise the greatest possible care and take the maximum precautions to safeguard and protect the interests of children.
The blanket of secrecy has been lifted.
We may not like what is underneath but we cannot fail our children.