This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Nancy Whittacker:

Member of the Commission.
Mr President, honourable Members, I have taken good note of the many concerns you have expressed, but let me first say that Article  300 ( 1 ) of the EC Treaty clearly states that negotiations on international agreements on matters falling under Community competence are conducted by the Commission on the basis of negotiating directives approved by the Council.
The European Parliament needs to be consulted before the conclusion of the agreement, as laid down in paragraph  3  of that article.
This provision also applies in areas of codecision, so in my view the procedures set up by the EC Treaty have been fully respected, both on readmission and on visa facilitation.
I wanted to say that, because it came up in the discussion.
At the same time, however, I can also reiterate that of course we are at your disposal to provide any relevant information, even during the ongoing negotiations.

I also fully share the view that the promotion and the safeguard of human rights in our relationships with Russia, and in connection with those agreements in particular, are of course a fundamental aspect.
The Commission, assisted by the EU Member States, will therefore monitor this issue very closely in the context of the joint committees set up by the agreements and, of course, human dignity  the dignity of the human being  is certainly very important here and has priority.
Furthermore, the regular semiannual consultations between the European Union and Russia on human rights are always an occasion where we can address broader concerns with Russia and human rights issues are always raised at the Summit and at ministerial levels, as appropriate.

The visa facilitation agreement constitutes a real improvement of the status quo.
It is indeed, as our colleague said, a step forward.
It contains important facilitations for issuing shortstay visas which will then apply on a reciprocal basis to citizens of the Schengen Member States and of the Russian Federation.
Some of these facilitations apply to all visa applicants and others to specific categories who have a particular interest in travelling, while the agreement provides for legally binding rights and obligations, which will ensure somewhat greater flexibility in the visa procedures.

I wish to draw your attention in particular to the fact that we, the Commission, have managed to negotiate important visa facilitation for journalists, for instance, who will no longer require an invitation or a validation by the Russian authorities, and special attention will also be paid to effective reciprocity in the implementation of the agreement, equal treatment regarding registration procedures for EU and Russian nationals and the free movement of persons within Russian territory.

You raised two topics, namely registration requirements and the removal of invitations.
I would like to just say that the agreement includes a commitment to simplify the registration procedures, with a view to ensuring equal treatment for EU and Russian citizens, and I would like to remind you that the Schengen acquis also imposes a general obligation for aliens to register.
We have raised this issue with the Russian authorities on several occasions and new legislation, which entered into force in Russia last month, is already in place to simplify these procedures.
According to this law, an appearance in person will no longer be required for registration.
Of course, we will now monitor and seek further clarification of these rules.
I would also like to say that the visa facilitation agreement introduces another important change, namely the fact that validation of invitations by the Russian authorities is no longer required.
In comparison with the current situation, where the invitation from the Russian host needs to be validated, this is, I think, a great improvement for a large category of citizens.

Of course, the agreement does not abolish the invitations and their validation for all EU citizens applying for Russian visas.
However, it should be borne in mind that the Schengen acquis also requires any person applying for a visa to justify the purpose of the travel and present supporting documents.

I also would like to say that the readmission agreement contains important elements for humane and more effective return management in the future and I would just like to reiterate what I said at the beginning.
In the case of asylum applications at the border, the principle of non refoulement has to be fully respected by Member States in accordance with Article  18  of the agreement.
So it is clear that this will be an important aspect.

I could go on giving you all the details, because I have listened very carefully.
However, I think this matter has already been discussed in the LIBE Committee, so just let me say that I hope the House will follow the committees recommendation and give a positive opinion on both agreements.
It will make a change for our citizens and ultimately this may be what matters most.