This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Annette Whittacker:

Mr President, I have a worry about my own mental health (since this topic was mentioned this morning) when I can get excited by something that says Special Report  597  of the Court of Auditors on the management of the Communitys cereals trade involving export refunds, special import arrangements and regional aid scheme together with the Commissions replies .
But it is one of those reports which are worth reading.
It is succinct and to the point.
The Court of Auditors have done a really good job in highlighting the problems that we have in this area, as Mrs Theato has stated.

However, it is not as good as previous special reports on the very same issue.
The one that caught everyones attention was when we were giving extra export refunds for exports from Germany, and ships were coming with grain into Germany, unloading, reloading the same grain, going away and getting monies for it.
That showed the total folly of the system, but the flaws persist.
Here we have export refunds from the period  19911994  totalling over ECU  11  billion.
That amount was actually more than the total spent on training, social policies, research and development, and antipoverty programmes.
These monies were going through that scheme with a number of mistakes as well as a number of unsatisfactory practices.

There are two points I want to highlight.
Firstly, on the POSEIMA schemes where we had monies going to the Azores.
When you read the report it is absolutely incredible how such monies could be spent in that way.
Flaws and defects in the programme were revealed which would warrant it being overhauled.
I am sure the Commission would agree with that.
One can only endorse the Courts finding that with the current system, factors irrelevant to the special requirements of the POSEIMA scheme will dictate aid levels.
It is absolutely unbelievable that we could have been paying money out in the way we did under those conditions.

I now wish to dwell on the area which covers comitology, an area in which I have quite an interest.
This ECU  11  billion was actually managed by a management committee over which Parliament has no control, no right of scrutiny and about which we have great difficulty in obtaining information.
Not too long ago, when the price of cereals actually reached record highs on the world market, the management committee stopped export refunds.
Fine, but we were never consulted or asked whether it was the right thing to do.
After all, it is only a couple of billion ECU!

During the couple of months when it was suspended, that money would have served to finance the rural development which Commissioner Fischler is trying to promote, and to reconvert our spending in CAP.
When the refunds returned, once again Parliament was not consulted.
No consultation, no information, just a fait accompli .
I do not think this is the right way for Parliament to operate when it comes to agriculture, but I know I am digressing on that.
The Commissioner may ask what that has to do with this report?
It has a lot to do with the report.
It is about the way the management committees operate.

I have to laugh that the opinion from our Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development says that Parliament is not in a position to monitor the activities of the management committees.
If that is the case, it shows the inadequacy of the present system.
We have  79  agricultural management committees.
That was the figure given when I did the budget.
In  1994  alone, the management committees took  4 ,  679  acts.
That is a lot of legislation and money.

The report is calling for transparency, and that is exactly what we should be doing.
I am pretty sure the Commissioner would support that approach.
We have to change our method of operating.
We have to change the way we spend our money in agriculture  away from export refunds, away from this comitology structure which deals with these large amounts of money.
We need a system that is more transparent, with fewer loopholes, fewer shortcomings.

I honestly think that the next special report should be a darned sight better than the previous ones.
Commissioner Fischler will, of course, have a lot to say about that and how that comes about.
He knows that he will have the support of this Parliament when he tries to bring about those changes because they are essential.