This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Michael Bush:

Mr President, first of all I should just briefly like to observe that my esteemed colleague, Mr Ken Collins, will, I hope, be delighted to see me rush in on this subject.
Someone called Needle speaking about inoculations and injections will, I think, certainly appeal to his sense of humour.

On a more serious point, I am very happy to welcome this thoughtful report and to thank Professor Cabrol for his work in its preparation.
The Socialist Group will certainly support its passage through Parliament and look forward to its implementation as soon as possible.

Let me also welcome the fact that the Commission has brought forward this analysis and these proposals after several years of preparation, particularly as it notes that it is not easy to provide an indepth analysis of the existing situation, still less so to deliver a judgment on it.
In fact it is particularly appropriate that we should support this initiative now.
For one thing, the context of the CJD crisis has dominated European health debates for most of the year.
But  1996  also sees the  200 th anniversary of the first successful immunization, by Edward Jenner, in England.

Now, thanks to medical and social advances, we can foresee eradication of leprosy, polio and river blindness.
But the ten biggest killers in the world continue to be infectious agents.
Many of them could be prevented or cured for as little as one dollar per person.
Our failure to do that means  50  million deaths each year are caused by communicable diseases.
Earlier this year the directorgeneral of the World Health Organization warned that the world stands on the brink of a global infectious disease crisis.
No country is immune , he warned.
Under those circumstances no community can ignore the threat, particularly one as relatively wealthy as the European Union.

Progress in this field is achievable and is essential.
The World Health Organization has taken a lead via regulations and immunization programmes, but the Commission report shows that the global picture is at best erratic, with health networks in disarray both in the developing world and in much of Eastern Europe, with economic and social deprivation being key factors.

It is significant that this is a short or mediumterm proposal at most, for many in this Parliament will agree that we could and should do much, much more than is proposed because of narrow minds in Member States.
That is why it is important that a full evaluation and review of the EU network role is completed within a maximum of five years, with proper accountability to this Parliament.
That is also why the list of diseases and pathogens to be covered by the surveillance system must be adaptable.
In the past  20  years,  30  new infectious diseases have emerged.
Just think of AIDS, Legionella, Ebola, Hepatitis C and E, and a new strain of cholera, which I have just heard has now hit the refugees in Zaire.
At that rate the fiveyear review could identify half a dozen more.
But the key question is how the EU will play a role within global and national developments.
It is crystal clear that international health bodies are at best resistant to the concept of another tier of bureaucracy.
They prefer issues such as capacitybuilding in Member States to be tackled within the existing framework, with cascades of common information.

That frankly means the money is unlikely to be forthcoming for anything more imaginative.
Also, the WHO remit, the G 7  project and continuing discussions with the United States must be taken into account.
Liaison will be crucial as will the rapid agreement of common technologies and language and the training of users.

So, I retain reservations, but the committee has been guided by the view of Professor Cabrol that a European Centre for the Surveillance of Communicable Diseases is desirable and we shall await the view of the Council with interest.
But there is consistent agreement that what is desperately needed is clear, accurate and speedy information in a widely useable form.
It seems to me that the EU should be ideally placed to be a strong spoke, if not the actual hub of that important wheel.
We shall back the Commission and Professor Cabrol to work until it becomes reality.