This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Sebastian McNabb:

Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the debate on trade and the environment is reaching a critical stage.
Since the agreements were signed at the end of the Uruguay Round and the World Trade Organization was created, not one positive decision has been taken, even though this House and other legislative assemblies only agreed to ratify the Marrakesh Agreements because those agreements envisaged a package that included environmental matters.

Now, the mandate of the WTOs Committee on Trade and Environment originally contained  10  points, none of which has been the subject of a policy decision by the decisionmaking bodies of the WTO.
In the absence of any decision by the policymakers, policy has been defined by the Panels, which are effectively the lawcourts of the World Trade Organization.
This situation cannot be allowed to go on.
Firstly, those bodies have no legitimate right to decide to set aside national laws of major importance in the field of the environment, health and consumer protection.
We have seen the reaction to this situation in the United States Congress when the Clinton government had its fast track application refused.
Secondly, the Panels themselves have acknowledged their limitations and requested guidelines from the policymakers of the World Trade Organization, and no such guidelines have been forthcoming.

And there are fundamental problems, Mr President, there is a problem over the objectives of the two policies.
Environmental policy seeks to change the way people behave, the way citizens, corporations and countries behave.
International trade policy merely aims to secure free trade in products or services, without allowing any distinction between products based on how they are made; that is to say, making no distinction between what are called otherwise like products in English.
And this is a basic conflict we have to consider in terms of philosophy and policy.

Then there are conflicting laws.
For example, the international conventions for the protection of the environment, such as CITES, the Washington Convention, which seeks protection for endangered species, has been torpedoed by a recent decision of the GATT Panel.
Although it is possible and does not cost much to protect disappearing species protected under the CITES Convention, the GATT Panel has just decided that it cannot prevent the United States from importing shrimps caught by methods which risk causing the extinction of species protected by an international environmental law.

The WTOs lack of decisionmaking power also causes problems regarding sustainable development.
We have had the banana Panel, which has caused some ACP countries very serious problems.
We have ethical questions, as we have seen all too clearly in the fact that the European law on legtraps has been placed in doubt by a potential threat from a possible GATT Panel.
We have questions concerning public health and consumer protection, like the decision on hormones in meat: Europe does not allow the use of hormones to fatten livestock, but they want to make us repeal that legislation.
We have questions concerning the labelling of products, such as timber products from forests that are not under sustainable forms of cultivation, but the WTO does not allow us to distinguish between timber produced by destroying virgin forests and timber from sustainable plantations.

I would like to ask the Commission a direct question, and, to avoid any misunderstanding, I will ask it in English, so that the Commissioner Sir Leon Brittan, Commissioner Marcelino Oreja and their technical advisers can understand:

I welcome the speech that Sir Leon Brittan produced in the Bellerive Globe Conference in Geneva.
But I can only welcome its proposal for a highlevel meeting of ministers for trade and environment if two conditions are met.
The first one is that this cannot be a delaying tactic.
It must be included in the declaration of the forthcoming Geneva highlevel WTO ministerial conference in May.
Otherwise it will not have enough political backing.
Secondly, we need to have a clear position from the Commission about the idea of a special procedure before the Panel convenes in the case of a conflict between environment and trade in the WTO.

To be clearer, we want it to be more democratic, more open to the NGOs and to the outside world, to the experts on the environment before the socalled judges of a Panel start taking decisions on trade and environment.
We want to establish two things here.
Firstly, on the institutional level, a highlevel ministerial group for trade and environment that will give the necessary political impetus that does not exist today in the committee on trade and the environment.
Secondly, on an operational level we want to have a predispute settlement mechanism where we can have participation of civil society, NGOs, environmental experts, to have some mediation before it reaches the time of decision.

I should also like to draw the Commissions attention to paragraphs  6 ,  8  and  10  where we ask for the creation of an eminent persons group to think about the most important philosophical questions, the warning we give in paragraph  8  and, finally, the urgency in creating the trade and environment ministerial group for sustainable development.

Mr President, I apologise for having gone on so long.
This problem is getting close to breakingpoint and the Commission must be made clearly aware that the democratic representatives of the people are losing patience.