This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Jennifer Reid:

Mr President, I hope colleagues will indulge us for a few minutes if we eat into question time, but I hope we can hold at least part of this debate with the PresidentinOffice and the Commissioner present.

It is now  12  months since President Hnsch appointed me as his special mediator on transnationally abducted children.
In that time I have dealt with  12  cases and almost daily requests for information and for help.
He has also appointed Ms Ann Hennon to assist me and I am also happy today to acknowledge the presence, in the gallery, of Mr Adair Dyer, who is the deputy secretarygeneral of the Hague Conference on private international law, specifically charged with the Hague convention dealing with this issue.

In the last few years happily, there has been an increase in marriages between citizens from different countries, but this brings with it also its own problems.
When these marriages break down there is often an anguished debate about who the children will live with afterwards.
We have two pieces of international legislation to deal with this issue: the Luxembourg Convention and the Hague Convention.
The Hague Convention is a good piece of legislation, though it is not quite good enough.
The main problems which exist with its implementation are the slowness of the procedures, the lack of free legal aid in some of our countries, and the excessive recourse to the use of the exemption clauses.
For these conventions to be effective the implementation of the procedures must be extremely rapid and almost automatic.
Another problem is the lack of knowledge of the procedures among some lawyers and judges who only deal very rarely with these cases.

In some cases the children are never found.
Figures from Interpol show that at the moment there are  60  children reported missing in the European Union and none of them have been traced.
Many of these may not in fact be cases of parental abduction, but may be simply criminal abduction.

There is a need for an independent, centralized European organization to which all missing children should be reported.
I say this having visited in the United States last week the Institute for Missing and Exploited Children.
Every year in the United States, with a population less than the European Union, they deal with the disappearance of approximately  367 ,  000  children, I repeat  367 ,  000 .
A great proportion, though by no means all of them, are parentally abducted children.
Many of them are runaway children, sometimes running away with adults, not their parents.
Many of them are children who simply disappear and are murdered and are never found again.
We have a problem in Europe because we simply have no idea of the numbers of children affected.

I believe, as I have said, that we need a centralized system.
I would suggest that Europol would be a very appropriate place to have this centralized agency capable of responding within  24  hours.
I must stress again the need for rapid action on these issues.
The police have all too often been reluctant, unable, or unwilling to actually start looking for these children until tragically sometimes it is too late.
We need recognition between Member States of custody orders given in each country.
This would cut down a great deal on abductions.

We also continue to have a serious problem for abductions outside the Community.
You will recall that the first mediator on abducted children was appointed in response to the Algerian mothers campaigns in Belgium and France.
Parents need to be aware of some of these issues before they marry or before they create children.
It is all very well to fall in love on your holidays, but when the realities of life begin to strike home the romance wears off very quickly and sometimes at considerable cost to the parents and to their children.
Premarital arrangements might be a good idea simply to concentrate the mind.

All too often when there is one abduction there is a reabduction by the other parent.
We need specialized, centralized courts in all our countries who will be well briefed and will deal with these cases within  24  hours of them being brought to their notice.
We also need more adequate training for our lawyers and for our judges.
Remember that at the heart of all these issues there is fear, love and all too often, unfortunately, revenge.
A great many of our children have suffered.
I have been totally and absolutely devastated by some of the stories I have heard over the last year.
I look forward very much to hearing what the Council and the Commission propose.