This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Nancy Reid:

Mr President, at the beginning of the British presidency, the British Prime Minister called for a Europe that works together as a team.
Tony Blair said that the mission of the UK presidency was to make Europe work for the people .

As we approach the Cardiff summit and the end of the British presidency, we in the Socialist group firmly believe that the British Government has been true to its word.
Jobs and employability have been given the attention they deserve.
Agreement has been reached for the launch of a single currency on  1 st January next year.
The process of enlargement has begun and the presidency has not flinched from ensuring that a firm start has been made on difficult issues like the reform of the common agricultural policy and the Structural Funds.
But I would hope that all the legislative procedures with regard to Agenda  2000  will be implemented by June  1999  and that this European Parliament is fully involved in all of the procedures.
Mention should also be made of the progress towards a creation of a more effective Common foreign and security policy.
I would like to congratulate Mr Cook in particular on his initiative with regard to a code of conduct on arms exports.

Progress has been made on these and indeed on many other areas but I would particularly like to refer to the fact that the British presidency really has had a very real physical presence in the European Parliament.
For example, I have been doing a little homework and I have been very pleased to find that British ministers have appeared at every plenary session during the presidency.
There have been sixteen appearances covering thirty separate debates; there have been forty eight presidency appearances before committee and by the end of the presidency over eighty British Government ministerial appearances will have taken place.
That is a very good example and if anything marks a clear break with the previous government, it is that very material presence of this administration with the European Parliament.

As we approach the Cardiff summit, we must not only take stock of what has been achieved but perhaps more importantly we need to look to the future.
We need a focus on the issues which will take us from Cardiff to Vienna and for the Socialist group top of the agenda has to be the issue of the economy and employment.
We warmly welcome the fact that following the Luxembourg job summit employment plans have been submitted by national governments.
The urgent task now, however, is to ensure that both plans are implemented as quickly and effectively as possible.

The plans, of course, will vary from one Member State to another but it is important for us all to recognize the need for common themes among our various approaches.
For example, if Europe as a whole is to prosper in the global economy we have to compete effectively in that global economy.
Competitiveness is not a takeitorleaveit option, on the contrary competitiveness is an essential prerequisite for sustainable economic success.
At the same time, we need to recognize that there are a number of factors which determine whether or not we can compete effectively.
Amongst these are the skills, adaptability and the motivation of our workforce, the extent to which we can develop an entrepreneurial and innovative culture and a degree to which we can invest in our economy for the future.

It is therefore essential that we all recognize the importance of research and development and of science generally.
I would in this regard urge the Council to make available appropriate funds for the Fifth Framework Programme on research and technological development.

Finally, as the Member of the European Parliament representing Cardiff, I am immensely proud that the European summit is being held in the capital city of Wales.
Today, Cardiff is emerging as a truly European city.
It is a city proud of its traditions but also a city optimistically looking towards a future.
Indeed, given that this summit will come at the end of a presidency which I am sure will be judged as a resounding success, there could hardly be a better host city than Cardiff.