This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Christoph MacLeod:

.
Mr President, let me begin by welcoming this debate.
I thank the honourable Members and the rapporteur in particular.

Let me make a few strategic remarks at the outset.
As you will be aware, the ninth EUChina Summit will take place in Helsinki in just three days time.
It will be a very important opportunity to discuss current issues and concerns at the highest level.
However, I should also like to focus my contribution today  particularly in the light of the focus of your report  on how we can bring a more strategic approach to our relations.
I may then add a few words on some specific items.

Our relationship with China is one of the key issues facing the European Union today and one that is constantly on my mind.
This is true across the board, whether on environment and climate change, energy security, nonproliferation, global and regional security, economic and trade relations and specific issues such as illegal migration.
There are also all the issues relating to the rule of law that you have mentioned.

We all know the key challenges.
Firstly, Chinas economic growth has been phenomenal, but, at the same time, it is still a developing country and more fragile than we might think.
To be sustainable, economic growth must be accompanied by social and political reform.
Secondly, China has a vital role to play in creating more stable international energy markets and dealing with environmental challenges.
Thirdly, accelerating globalisation  which is increasingly identified in the public mind with cheap production in China  is an issue and is leading to pressure for protectionism in developed markets, which both the European Union and China need to work to avoid.
Fourthly, China, like the European Union, wields global influence.
Will this support or hinder a rulesbased multilateral world order?
Put simply, the question facing us is how we should respond to the rising superpower with whom we certainly share interests and common ground, but  and let us be realistic here  with whom we also disagree as regards some very fundamental values and beliefs.

Before suggesting some principles that should guide our strategic response to this challenge, I should reiterate that the basic premise for the EUs policy towards China must be one of engagement and partnership.
There is no suggestion of containment or of hedging our options.
Engagement and partnership are the most effective basis for encouraging and supporting Chinas development in a way that meets the aims and interests of both the EU and China.

What principles should guide us?
In terms of Chinas internal reform and development we must be constructive and we must complement Chinese policy where possible.
However, the European Union must also send firm and very consistent messages on our areas of interest, such as the need for social and political reform to ensure Chinas sustainability, the importance of international nonproliferation regimes, and immediate market access and a level playing field for EU companies.
Secondly, internationally, the European Union has an interest in encouraging more active and responsible international engagement by China.
We need to enhance our understanding of Chinese foreign policy if we want to work together effectively.
We should emphasise the regional component, increasing our awareness and sensitivity as regards regional issues and encouraging regional integration and greater multilateralism in Asia.

Thirdly, the European Union needs greater focus and coherence internally.
Before exploring new areas, there should be a full internal review of our existing cooperation, leading to a clearer focus on priorities and, as necessary, moving on from areas which are ineffective or are no longer priorities.
Our aim should be a holistic approach, with the European Union as a whole speaking again with one voice on its China policy.

Fourthly, we should also work to ensure that our bilateral relations are strengthened by embracing all constituents of societies.
Parliament will also have a very important role to play in this context.
We need a longterm programme to promote mutual understanding and an effective strategic policy mechanism that is sufficiently informal and flexible.

Fifthly, throughout this process, the European Union should be aware of its strengths.
There is particular EU expertise on a range of issues relating to internal stability where China wants help, for instance on energy, the environment, regional integration and public health, and we should exploit this as fully as possible.

Sixthly, there are other areas in which we have less leverage.
I know the human rights situation in China is of particular concern to Parliament, as it is to the Commission.
The past year has not been seen as a year of significant progress on any of the areas in which we are particularly interested, such as the ratification of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the release of the  1989  prisoners, the abolition of reform through labour and greater protection for freedom of expression and of religion, where we continue to have real concerns.
But I can assure you, honourable Members, that these issues will remain a central part of our policy agenda and we will continue to engage and to push for progress.

The Commission is taking steps to turn these principles into reality.
We will, as the report requests, set out a new strategic vision for our policy towards China, which we will be in a position to present formally to the Council and Parliament in November.
I look forward to assessing the situation for myself during my trip to China early next month.

In addition to our continued support for Chinas internal reform process, I think we should also focus on four basic priorities: first, we need a greater balance in our bilateral relations, whether described as reciprocity, equality or mutual benefit.
That includes a more meaningful dialogue on human rights and related issues.
Questions such as progress on social and economic rights would be included there.
We are worried by the situation on civil and political rights in China, and in particular, as has been mentioned, as regards freedom of expression, religion and association and the protection of the rights of minorities.
We are, in that context, concerned that internet use is being more and more restricted and controlled.
As I heard the rapporteur say, we attach great importance to the issue of organ harvesting.
It is clear that the legislation on that issue recently adopted by the Chinese Government does not adequately address the issue of donor consent, particularly for those who have died in custody or who have been executed.
We have made our concerns known very clearly to the Chinese Government, both through our human rights dialogue and wider political channels, urging it, in quite strong terms, to take measures to address these concerns as a matter of urgency.

We need to make China a responsible member of the international community, but more than just a stakeholder, it needs to be a positive and active contributor.
On trade issues, if EU markets are to remain open, we have to see to it that we need a genuine, bilateral and multilateral response from China implementing the letter and spirit of the WTO commitments.
We need to overhaul the management structures for our relationship to avoid fragmentation and to ensure our allocation of resources on China is appropriate.

There is much to be done in defining a realistic but also an ambitious strategic vision for moving EUChina relations forward.
We should not ignore the difficulties involved in achieving this  and I do not think we are ignoring them.
But let me reiterate that it is crucially important that we get the relations right.
Both sides want a genuine strategic partnership that merits its name.
It is our responsibility to translate this political desire into practice.

I think we have a good basis on which to move forward and, as we do so, I hope we can count on your support, because it is too important an issue for us not to succeed.