This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Alastair McNabb:

Mr President, i dtosach bire ba mhaith liomsa cad mle filte a chuir roimh Tnaiste na hEireann is Uachtarin Chomhairle na hAir do Comhphobal na hEorpa ar an gcad turais seo at danta aige do Parlaimint na hEorpa.

I warmly welcome the Irish presidency on their first visit to the European Parliament since taking up office on  1  July.
I would briefly like to comment on the introductory remarks made by the Tnaiste in relation to the Northern Ireland situation and say to him that many in this Parliament were dismayed at the abject surrender in Northern Ireland in recent days to mob rule.
The official message conveyed is that the rights of the nationalist community can be overridden by force when necessary.

This has inevitably caused deep anger within the nationalist community which must, however, be channelled constructively and with dignity.
There must be no violence, no bombs and no retaliation.
All must respect that the principle of consent must be upheld and consent must be sought and given freely, peacefully and without intimidation or coercion.
The freedom to give consent is also the freedom to withhold consent and the consent of both communities is needed.

The British Government pledged in the framework document to exercise their jurisdiction with rigorous impartiality on behalf of all the people of Northern Ireland in their diversity with emphasis on full respect for and equality of civil, political, social and cultural rights and freedom from discrimination for all citizens, on parity of esteem and a just and equal treatment for the identity, ethos and aspirations of both communities.
That is the pledge.

Both communities in Northern Ireland are vulnerable in different parts in Northern Ireland.
I deplore the sectarian attacks to which each of them have been subjected in recent days.
The spirit of reconciliation and mutual accommodation is needed all over Northern Ireland in place of the spirit that the majority rules.
The human, political and economic cost of such an attitude is far too great and risks repeating the shameful intimidation of people from their homes which has scarred Northern Ireland so often in the past.
There is a great responsibility on the British Government and the Irish Government and all the northern parties to give the peace process fresh impetus after the grave setback of the last ten days.

I am sure that the work of the Irish presidency over the next six months will yield positive results for the many difficult problems which are confronting decisionmakers in the European Union at the present time.
The most serious political, social and economic problem confronting the Union at the present time continues to be the urgent need to find job opportunities for the  18  million people without work in Europe today.
Commission President Jacques Santer recently tabled proposals for a Confidence Pact on Employment containing a series of measures which have the potential to promote economic growth and new job opportunities provided that our respective governments agree to work with each other and with the Commission on the implementation of President Santers plans.

The Irish presidency has decided that tackling unemployment will be the main priority of its term in office.
If the presidency is to succeed in making progress on this important issue, then it must persuade the Unions Member States not just to give political support to the Confidence Pact on Employment, but also to provide the funding to implement the proposals and construct the TENs projects put forward by President Santer.

While it will not be easy to get the agreement of the national governments on the politically difficult question of funding, the Irish presidency must guard against efforts, which are already under way, simply to divert resources from the structural funds and the common agricultural policy to fund these new proposals.
Such a solution would effectively result only in funds being transferred from the agricultural and peripheral regions to the denselypopulated and already highlydeveloped regions of the centre of the Union.
This would not be in the best interests of the European Union as a whole nor would it be in the best interests of the countries on the periphery such as Ireland.

The presidencys second priority is to tackle the drugs problem.
Effective action to confront the illegal drugs trade requires a wide range of measures such as harmonizing laws on drug smuggling and money laundering and increased cooperation between police and custom agencies.
Most of all, as customs and immigration control within the Union are progressively reduced, increased cooperation will be required to confront the drug smugglers along the Unions external frontiers.
Resources will have to be transferred from the Unions internal frontiers, where they are no longer required, to the external frontiers.

The most appropriate method of transferring resources to the Unions external frontiers to combat drug smuggling is by making money available in the annual budget of the Union for upgrading equipment and increasing training to these agencies.
The  1996  budget does not contain any money to assist in policing the Unions external frontiers.
If the presidency is to succeed in making progress in tackling the drug problem then it should, as a matter of urgency, bring forward proposals for making money available from the Unions  1997  budget for this purpose.