This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Lynne Merx:

.
Mr President, I am very impressed by the passionate contributions on this very important issue.

The process that the Commission is leading to develop an EU response to the human resources crisis demonstrates the strength of greater European coordination.
The collective commitment of Member States and of the Commission is likely to have a much greater impact than the Commission or Member States working alone.

The response to the human resources crisis reflects the principle set out in .
It is the Member States commitment to increase the overall levels of development assistance, moving towards the target of  0 . 7  of GNI as ODA, that will provide the increasing budget for accelerated progress.
But it is the coordinated efforts of the European Community that will ensure that the increased resources are more efficiently spent, providing coordinated, coherent backing for countryled and developed plans.

We believe that better coordinated and more coherent implementation of our common European policy, reflecting the commitments made in the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, provides the best means for a drastic increase in human and social development spending.
That needs to be prioritised by the Member States and reflected in our common policy.

That is why the Commission has proposed a package of concrete measures on aid effectiveness.
The package will allow the European Union to deliver more, faster and better aid.

At the Paris aid effectiveness meeting, the European Union made a commitment to increase the proportion of aid it provides as budget support.
That commitment includes the potential to increase funding for both general and sector budget support, complemented, if necessary, by projecttype funding.
Delegations making programming decisions for the  10 th EDF therefore have a choice of aid instruments with which to respond to nationally defined priorities.
There is considerable scope for the national decisionmaking and country programming processes to focus increased effort on the health or social sectors through sector budget support, if that is prioritised at country level.

I should just like to answer some of the more specific questions that have been raised.

On the question of a code of conduct, I can confirm that the Commission is willing to consider how to develop and implement a European code of conduct for the ethical recruitment of health workers.
On the question of tailored medicine, which was raised by two Members, we are currently supporting a study on the potential of trying to make better use of the available efforts as part of our partnership with the African Union.

Corruption is indeed a problem for development and particularly damaging for the delivery of key social services, such as health.
As you know, we agreed on the need to address that problem through a whole range of measures.
Tomorrow we will have plenty of time to have a more indepth discussion, when we discuss Mrvan den Bergs excellent report on the issue.

Several Members have mentioned the question of the proportion of development funds that is allocated to human and social development.
Most Commission financing is allocated through country programming.
Currently, over  20  of the Commissions development budget is allocated to social infrastructure.
In addition, general budget support financing includes linkage to progress measured against health indicators and is therefore a mechanism for supporting and reinforcing countrylevel prioritisation of the Millennium Development Goals.

The Commission will be increasing the proportion of development assistance given as budget support and will seek to increase the link between budget support and progress towards the Millennium Development Goals.
The decision on the proportion of financing allocated by countries to human and social development is ultimately a question for national governments.
The Commission will continue in its policy dialogue with governments to emphasise the importance of human and social development for economic growth and for poverty reduction.