This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Sarah Bauer:

Madam President, one minute to pay tribute to the respect and esteem in which my group holds Klaus Hnsch as President of this Parliament is really not enough.
I want to say, first of all, that last night in the Socialist Group one of your distinguished predecessors, Enrique Baron, said in discussion with one of your potential successors, that each presidency has its own style.
You have had your own style, Mr President, and you have had style.

The Socialist Group who nominated you, Mr President, are proud of you.
You have brought great credit on this Group and we will welcome you back with open arms in a few weeks as a VicePresident of our Group.
We thank you very much for all the work you have done, for all you have stood for.

I cannot go through all the things that have happened in your presidency but you, Mr President, have never been afraid to take decisions.
You have never been afraid to advance radical proposals provided you believed that they were in the best interests of our Parliament and would reflect well on Europe.
You have been a strong, determined, radical President committed to bringing our Parliament closer to its people.
We know that in this House that will not always make you very popular, but we respect the fact that you have achieved much in trying to bring this Parliament closer to its people.

I repeat, we in the Socialist Group, and I am sure all of us in this House, are proud of you.
I want particularly to recall one of the first innovations of your presidency: the Delorsstyle Question Time which all of us are now familiar with in this House.
For those of you who actually believe the President had a secret list either in front of him or in his head, I can dispel that belief because if it was the case then I am sure the leader of the largest Group, and particularly his Group, would have been on that list.
But I have to tell you I was the victim of not being on that list many times.
I often felt, looking at the Presidents mischievous grin as he looked at me waving my hand, that I was a deliberate victim of this new system.
But I do feel, however, and I think colleagues will agree, that has brought life to this House in a way that we very much appreciate.
We thank you for that.

The sessions where we dealt with the ratification of the Commission President and the public hearings on the Commissioners brought this House to life politically in a way that it has hardly ever been before and set a very good standard for future ratifications of the European Commission.

This is not anywhere near what I would like to say and I will certainly pay tribute to our President, Klaus Hnsch, at a later time and in our own way in our Group, but I want to end by saying that there have been some very notable moments in this House during the last twoandahalf years.
I remember in particular the visit of Franois Mitterrand, which you hosted during the last months of his life: that very moving moment when he said that he was a French patriot and that France was his country but Europe was Frances future, and the way in which you, President, held that meeting in your grasp and how moving it was.
I remember as well the many tributes you have paid and the many speeches you have made particularly in solemn session and let me remind Members of this House of the one that for most of us is most striking, President, when you stood and spoke to us in memory of the bombing of Dresden.
On that occasion, which was a hugely moving moment in this House, when you recalled your own personal reminiscences of that day, there were not many of us here that had a dry eye and I personally had a very great lump in my throat that day.

As indeed I did yesterday when you reminded us in this House  and let us remind people over there  that what we are fighting for and what you stood for and defended was the role this Parliament and this Europe can play in the defence of human rights, in the defence of democracy, in the defence of humanity all across this world.

President, you have been brilliant at that.
We are proud of that.
Thank you, President.