This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Sarah Cameron:

Madam President, on behalf of the Party of European Socialists, I would like to begin by expressing my wholehearted support for this proposal for a directive amending the original directive on the minimum level of training of seafarers.
It is another positive step in the improvement of both safety at sea and the protection of our very important marine environment.
Bearing in mind that over the past decade we have lost some  12 ,  000  lives at sea throughout the world  and, indeed, continue to lose more than  200  ships a year throughout the world, we in the European Union need to be constantly on guard to enhance and improve the standards of safety at sea.

The essential essence of this directive is to address the human factor.
As the rapporteur, Mr Parodi, quite rightly pointed out, some  80   of maritime accidents are attributable to human error and therefore this key issue should play an important part in our maritime strategy to enhance safety and protect the environment.
It is vital that seafarers receive the necessary high level of training and certification in order to reach the level of competence and skill needed during their service at sea, to be able to communicate effectively with the crew, follow instructions and advice and, on occasion  all too often I fear  deal with crisis situations.
Vessels must be crewed by seafarers who possess the necessary theoretical and practical knowledge.

This current proposal seeks to incorporate the requirements of the  1995  Convention on the standards of training of certification and watchkeeping for seafarers.
I would like to congratulate the Commission not only for keeping pace with international maritime law but transposing it into Community legislation to ensure that it is effective throughout our European waters.
I hope that the Commission will continue to maintain this pace of improving safety at sea.
This proposal for a directive seeks to include the new training and certification requirements, including watchkeeping requirements and to introduce common criteria for the recognition of seafarers certificates issued by third countries.

Like Mr Parodi, I was pleased that the Council, with the support of the Commission, has incorporated most of the ideas and objectives of the European Parliament in the first reading.
I am pleased to say that Mr Parodi successfully managed to further clarify and enhance the Commission proposal, removing uncertainties and simplifying the text.
I was particularly impressed with the emphasis which the rapporteur put on the need to attract young people into the maritime profession and to promote the employment of seafarers.
In its recent communication Towards a Maritime Strategy , the Commission indicated that there is a worldwide shortage of qualified and able seafarers.
Developing a European policy to bring young people into the profession is a vital means of providing both highquality seafarers and helping resolve the problems of unemployment in Europe, not least in our maritime communities.

I would like to take this opportunity to commend the rapporteur on the importance he placed on having a common working language to be able to work effectively and, in particular, handle crisis situations.
I look forward to the implementation of this directive in Member States as another positive move in our campaign for maritime safety.

I would conclude by urging the Commission to ensure that this amendment to the directive is implemented, is transposed and is enforced by the Member States.
We have recently had a report that some  60   of all transport internal market directives have yet to be transposed by the Member States.
Perhaps the Commissioner would like to comment on how best we can ensure that this very worthy directive is not only supported here in this House, implemented by the Council but is actually implemented on the ground by the Member States and their enforcement agencies.
Indeed, I would like to see some mechanism whereby we can have a regular reporting mechanism to ensure that safety standards throughout the EU are not only maintained but are implemented and enforced at a high level.