This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Philip Cameron:

Member of the Commission.
 Mr President, at the New York International donors conference, the European Union pledged EUR  1 . 235  billion.
We are the largest donor to Haitis reconstruction so, in this way, we will also be the largest contributor to the government of Haitis action plan for reconstruction.
I am also proud about the manner in which we did it because it was an EU common pledge, which consisted of support from many EU countries, like Spain, France and the wider Community.
But I am also proud that even my country, which has not had too many relations with Haiti, pledged additional funding, not just the funding channelled through the Community budget.

The New York conference took place in a very good spirit.
There was a very strong financial outcome, there was very clear ownership of Haitis Government and there were many stakeholders.
Some Members of the European Parliament could see that NGOs, including European NGOs, had a voice there.
EU businesses have also been involved and also interim mechanisms for coordination, proposed under the leadership of Prime Minister Bellerive and Bill Clinton.
As all the stakeholders are included in this mechanism, it gives a guarantee that money will not be wasted or used for other purposes.

It is very important now that we concentrate our aid as quickly as possible.
The Commission and Member States are already preparing a new country strategy paper and a national indicative programme for Haiti.
To support our joint efforts, we will speed up our efforts to set up an EU House in Haiti, which would give greater visibility but will also help involve nonresident donors.

I shall be going to Haiti this week to deliver firsthand concrete support to longterm reconstruction in the areas of infrastructure and governance.
This week, I will sign five financial agreements for a total amount of more than EUR  200  million and I will also inaugurate some of the work we have already done like the rehabilitation of the road between PortauPrince and Cape Haitian, which is fully in line with the plan of action of the government and which also supports the wholeoftheisland approach.

To reinforce the government capacities, I will also inaugurate the reconstruction of the Ministry of the Interior, financed with EU contributions.
I will also inaugurate a school in Mirabelais.
Our particular focus is on education, as President Prval has requested, and we will also announce more budget support delivery.
Delivering budget support is not blind support.
We have taken many precautionary measures and undertaken many visits, so I can guarantee that your money will be used for its purpose.

I will also commit to regulatory monitors for the construction process through regular visits and to speed up aid delivery.
I will keep the European Parliament constantly informed of the progress made on Haiti reconstruction.

I would also like to emphasise that it is not only me but the whole college: Kristalina Georgieva, the High Representative, Baroness Ashton, and also some of my other colleagues who will help oversee the reconstruction, such as Michel Barnier, who will go to Haiti in a couple of months.
It is the ownership not only of the responsible commissioner, but of the whole College.

We also need to discuss with the authorities a couple of issues on how to better deliver our assistance.
Longterm commitment from the international community will not prevail if Haiti quickly slips back to a business as usual approach.
To prevent this scenario, we must strive to be effective and we have already mentioned some of the ways in which we can achieve this.
But equally, there is great responsibility resting with the authorities and the people of Haiti to build in a better way.

Two aspects stand out, in particular.
On the social front, the government should be encouraged to enter into very close contact with the opposition and also with the whole civil society.
That will build genuine national consensus around the development plan and promote the stability necessary for its implementation.
On the economic side, the macroeconomic framework presented in New York must be more rigorous and combined with a clear path towards employment and growth, which will break the cycle of poverty and inequality.