This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Helen Bauer:

High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and VicePresident of the Commission.
 Mr President, I am pleased to have this opportunity to make a statement on Kyrgyzstan.
As this House knows very well, the situation on the ground remains somewhat fluid and tense.
Kyrgyzstan has attracted quite some media and political attention, and I have followed developments closely from the beginning, making two statements, one on  7  April and the other on  8  April.

I sent a delegation almost immediately, headed by the EU Special Representative, Pierre Morel, to the country and we stayed in close contact throughout his visit.

The coordinated EUUNOSCE effort that started last week in Bishkek continues at the moment and will continue until the crisis and its consequences are overcome.
Yesterday, I spoke with the Kazakh Foreign Minister Saudabayev, who today is visiting Bishkek as ChairinOffice of the OSCE, and who has literally just sent me a message to say that he has completed his tasks.

The resignation of the President, on the basis of Article  50  of the present Kyrgyz Constitution, and his departure from the country is expected to reduce political tension.
However, that is not the end of the crisis, and we have important work to do.

Most importantly, we have to ensure stability and public order, and while the situation has generally calmed down, violence continues.
Reports told us yesterday that as many as five people were killed in riots in the suburbs of Bishkek.
All sides need to be careful and avoid provocation.
The restoration of law and order must be a priority.
Citizens and businesses in Kyrgyzstan need to be able to go about their daily life without fear for their lives or for their physical integrity.

The second issue concerns the legitimacy of the provisional government.
Although President Bakiyev has officially resigned, the provisional government needs to commit to a clear plan for how to return to constitutional and democratic order and the rule of law.

Elements of such a roadmap have been announced  a new constitution is being drawn up and submitted to referendum and presidential and parliamentary elections are to be held.

We will be happy to look at such a plan.
What is important for us in this context is that the constitutional process is inclusive and participatory.
Representatives of all parties and ethnic groups should be able to contribute to a new draft constitution before it is submitted to a referendum.

The early indications  I can tell honourable Members  are encouraging.
I hope these will be confirmed over the coming days, and I will discuss this with Ministers in Luxembourg on Monday.

If we are satisfied the provisional government is committed to a quick return to legitimacy and genuinely wants to join the democratic family, we will be ready to provide the necessary political, financial and technical support.

With the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe, we could contribute to the work on constitutional reform and the updating of electoral legislation.
We know from the presidential elections last year that there is considerable room for progress.

With the OSCE, we are willing to work on the preparations and modalities for monitoring the elections and, with the people of Kyrgyzstan, we are ready to do what we can to help turn their aspirations for a democratic and open society into reality.

Thirdly, it is clear that Kyrgyzstan needs material assistance.
In the very short term, we are willing to address any humanitarian needs that recent events might have created.

On the basis of the information that we have had from our partners in the field  the Red Cross and the UN Development Programme  there do not seem to be major unmet humanitarian needs at this stage.
However, there may be specific medical needs.
The Commission, through DG ECHO, will, of course, keep monitoring the humanitarian situation in the country and adjust as necessary.

We will continue the assistance that is already ongoing, notably in the fields of human rights, education and poverty eradication.

Fourthly, after the dramatic events of the last two weeks, there is a need for accountability and justice.
More than  80  persons died and many hundreds were wounded from gunfire opened against demonstrators in Bishkek.
These events cannot simply be put on one side.
We need clarity brought on what actually happened, on who was responsible, and on what needs to be done to avoid this ever being repeated in the future.

Finally, as the recent crisis has shown, there is a need for genuine economic and social reforms.
Unfortunately, the example of Kyrgyzstan shows how bad government and the lack of genuine reform can bring political instability and ultimately violence.

The upheaval and the widespread looting that followed, and now the rise in organised, largescale crime, further aggravates the situation.

I will discuss with Ministers on Monday the political framework in which the European Union will be ready to address the most pressing needs, but of course, today, I am very interested to hear the views of the honourable Members on this matter.