This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Claire Brown:

Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their work.
I joined this Parliament in  1989  and I was Parliaments first rapporteur, along with Mr Cox, on economic and monetary union.
We have travelled quite a distance in terms of the technical work to finally complete this important project.
If you look at these reports and the work that we have undertaken on economic and monetary union, despite the difficulties that we have had, including the economic downturn in the early  1990 s, we have now reached a point where the momentum behind economic and monetary union is unstoppable.

If you look at the biggest players in the financial services sector they have based their strategic decisions over the past few years on the assumption that EMU will indeed go ahead.
We have seen recently a wave of mergers and restructuring that spread throughout the financial services sector.
In the private sector as a whole there has been largescale investment in the updating of information technology systems and the retraining of staff.
All this marks the transition to economic and monetary union on  1  January  1999 .

This demonstrates that when the European Union sets itself clear targets and when it sets itself realistic timetables, we can achieve great things in this Europe.
Since it started its first phase in  1990  the EMU project has had clear targets.
It has had a manageable timetable and, of course, that is why we will achieve the single currency on  1  January  1999 .
In less than four months, the Council will take that final important decision, and as a Parliament we have to look beyond that decision of  2  May and the start of the EMU on  1  January  1999  and set ourselves a new agenda within the European Parliament.
It is no good sitting here selfsatisfied with the fact that we have created the single currency; we have to see how we apply that single currency and what role it is going to have in our lives.

Today I would like to set out some of the priorities for my group over the coming years.
We need to learn an important lesson from the financial turmoil in southeast Asia.
A currency must be stable and we must be able to demonstrate its stability.
Therefore the pact for stability and growth is extremely important indeed.
We in this Parliament must make sure that it is applied rigorously so that we can protect the stability of our currency.

Secondly, our group wants to see greater steps made in economic coordination.
I would say to the Commissioner today, because I know that his services are working on the annual economic report at the moment, that we would like to know exactly what the new annual economic report will look like.
What will the broad economic guidelines look like in terms of building this new strengthened economic coordination?
We would like to have a dialogue with you over the next couple of weeks to ensure that the broad economic guidelines for the future are what we actually require in this new European environment.

We want to ensure that the European Bank is independent.
No one in this house would challenge that, but there is no reason why an independent bank should not also be accountable.
We need to apply ourselves very carefully, particularly in the context of Mrs RandzioPlaths report, to how we make that bank accountable.
It is our job here in the European Parliament to do that.
That means, President, and I say this to you because you are a member of Parliaments Bureau, we need to restructure the committees of the European Parliament.
We need a Banking Committee in the European Parliament that deals with financial services and which will deal with the European Central Bank in the same way that nations like the United States of America have a powerful Banking Committee.
We in our group will pursue this over the next few months.

What will be the role of national parliaments in this whole new environment?
Will we be so arrogant as to believe that we do not need to have a relationship with national parliaments?
We need at least informally to build a relationship with national parliaments and I will be taking steps in the next few weeks to do this, hopefully with colleagues from across the Chamber.
We should set up a European Economic Forum where national parliaments and Members of this European Parliament can meet to monitor carefully economic coordination and the role of the European Central Bank.
I hope that some in this room will join in that endeavour.

My last point is in relation to the citizens and the consumer.
We have done the technical work but we have not yet sold the message to the public.
Our job as a European Parliament, your job as a Commission and the job of the Council is to make sure that between now and  1  January  1999 , and particularly  2002 , the citizens accept and welcome all the work that we have done and the creation of that single currency.