This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Lynne Smith:

Mr President, I want to begin by expressing my warm support for the efforts of the Dutch presidency over the past six months.
Whatever our assessment of the outcome of the Intergovernmental Conference, we recognize the vigour and rigour which Prime Minister Kok personally has brought to the process.
My group would certainly want to put on record our thanks to the Prime Minister, his Foreign Minister Mr Van Mierlo and his European Minister Mr Patijn and also the other members of his government who have given this Parliament such firm support.

It is our role here today to make an initial political response to the Treaty of Amsterdam.
For my group this Treaty will be judged on two major issues.
Firstly, does the Treaty respond to the aspirations, hopes and expectations of the peoples of the European Union?
Secondly, does the Treaty make the Union ready for enlargement to Cyprus, the Baltic States and Central and Eastern Europe?
I want to make it clear that my group recognizes and welcomes the advances which the Amsterdam Treaty has brought in dealing with a peoples Europe.

Firstly, we very much welcome the decision of the Council to put employment at the top of its agenda.
My group supports the inclusion of the new title on employment and the social protocol into the Treaty as well as the reference to fundamental social rights.
We recognize that words in a Treaty never created a single job.
But we also recognize that the new competence allows us for the first time to create a framework in which the serious coordination of the economic and employment policies of the Member States can begin.
This is surely what we can do at European level to ensure that the work being done by Member States to deal with the curse of unemployment is sustainable, ensuring that economic and employment policies across fifteen of the richest countries in the world working in close and careful harmony will make a huge contribution to growth and real job creation.

Knowing as I do the PresidentinOffices commitment to the fight against unemployment, I should like to turn to him with a message from the Socialist Group.
If the Council was really serious about job creation, there is a real opportunity to prove it immediately.
The Unions broad economic guidelines are yet to be fully adopted by the Council.
There is a stated commitment in the resolution on growth and employment to ensure that employment is taken into greater account when establishing the broad economic guidelines.
You will also know that the Finance Ministers meeting in ECOFIN have a reputation for completely ignoring the entreaties of the European Council.
We need the Prime Ministers of the Member States to exercise their authority and insist that the broad economic guidelines are now revised.
Nothing would give a stronger signal of good intention than that.
Nothing would silence the cynics more quickly than that.
And, President Santer, nothing would prove the political commitment of the European Commission more than if they insisted on such a revision.

Such a move would also give a clear signal that the summit on employment to be held in October under the Luxembourg presidency had real political muscle behind it and was intended to come forward with concrete proposals, rather than the usual ritual blah blah.
The promises on employment now need some flesh on their bones.
The adoption of the broad economic guidelines offers the first opportunity and the employment summit offers the second.

On behalf of my group I also want to recognize the other positive aspects of the Amsterdam Treaty.
The acknowledgement of respect for human rights; the new nodiscrimination clause, although it is such a pity that in the European Year against Racism and Xenophobia the Council could not adopt this competence with qualified majority voting; the clear step forward on equal opportunities, the environment, public health and consumer protection; the developments on transparency and openness and the reduction in the number of decisionmaking procedures and the streamlining and extension of codecision for the European Parliament.

I understand that some governments are even now questioning the extended list of codecision, arguing that decisions made by unanimity in the Council cannot be subject to codecision with the European Parliament.
Perhaps the Prime Minister could draw the attention of Member States to the existent powers on culture, Article  128  of the present Maastricht Treaty and the existing powers on research, Article  130  of the Maastricht Treaty, both of which grant codecision with the European Parliament while acting unanimously in the Council.
The Prime Minister will have the total support of this Parliament in insisting that the list of articles to be dealt with by codecision, as published in the draft Treaty of Amsterdam and now widely circulated, is sustained.

My group are also deeply disappointed with progress on the second and third pillars of the Treaty.
We have made it clear all along and have supported your efforts to communitarize some aspects of the justice and home affairs pillar.
We respect the fact that some transfer has been made but I want to repeat the real anxiety we have about the lack of parliamentary control which now exists in these areas  crucial areas of immigration policy, visa controls and asylum.
By retaining unanimity in the Council and only consulting the European Parliament, real democracy in these areas is thwarted.

On the issue of common foreign and security policy, we always knew it was going to be difficult to make real progress, in particular on defence issues and my group is pleased that we are able to integrate the Petersberg tasks into the Treaty.
But we remain concerned about the lack of a coherent foreign policy voice for Europe.
We hear what the Treaty says about a Mr or Ms CFSP but with unanimity in the Council, how will Mr or Ms CFSP know with what voice to speak.

Perhaps our greatest disappointment is with regard to enlargement.
We have grave misgivings about the inability of the Council to agree on any meaningful extension of QMV.
More than any other issue, this puts enlargement at risk.
With even more Member States at the table in the coming years, how can we expect to see high standards being set in European legislation to protect the living and working condition of Europes peoples.
Therefore my group believes that it is vital that before enlargement the European Council must come together again to address the question of majority voting in the Council as well as the composition of the Commission and the weighting of votes.

I conclude by saying that my group is firmly of the view that a Treaty which, despite our misgivings, has made steady progress on the agenda important to our peoples cannot be dismissed.