This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Mary McNabb:

Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating the two rapporteurs, not merely on the excellence of their reports but on the patience and tenacity with which they have gone about their work.
I sometimes have the impression that in certain delicate matters such as that which we are discussing today the European Parliament provides  626  rapporteurs for reports coming from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities.
While contributions from outside are always very enriching and welcome it makes the coming to consensus a little more difficult.
But I am quite confident that tomorrow we will have come to the end of this particular long road and I think it will be to the great credit of all involved.

I should like to begin by referring to Mr Fords report and I am sure he will not be offended if I describe it as the less controversial of the two.
It is, as he has said, little more than a recapitulation of elements that were already voted earlier in this year and that is the basis on which they will be coming forward tomorrow.
We in the EPP have some residual doubts about the appropriateness of referring to assistants in this particular report.
But in the interest of bringing the matter to a successful conclusion we will be voting for the totality of Mr Fords report.
We point out that Mr Janssen van Raay will be producing a separate report for the Rules Committee precisely on the question of assistants.
We look forward to that very much.

Turning to Mr Nordmanns report I should begin by underlining that as Mr Nordmann himself said, he has faithfully and honourably transposed and implemented the conclusions of the working group set up by the Conference of Presidents.
For that reason, if for no other, his report would have the greatest possible claim to be voted tomorrow.
I personally will be voting for it even without amendment though I did put down an amendment.
I wish to speak briefly about the reasoning behind that.

What has worried me and a number of colleagues in the EPP and other groups as well has been the particular phraseology of Mr Nordmanns report:  that Members of Parliament shall refrain from accepting any other gift or benefit in the performance of their duties .
I am worried about the possible vagueness and difference of interpretation that such phraseology can provoke.
I have spoken to a number of individual colleagues and in some cases they might regard a book given to a Member who has spoken in the constituency of another Member as being a gift and therefore potentially unacceptable.
Others would say No, it is not a gift.
It is simply a courtesy which is offered to a friend within the European Parliament.
I regard that as being potentially undesirable.
I have had put to me two possible ways of tackling this problem, one of which has been referred to by Mr Nordmann already: a compromise amendment which would ask the Bureau to set down guidelines as to how this particular proscription is to be interpreted.
If that receives a lot of support then I will happily withdraw the amendment which I put forward, which went more in the sense of saying that only those gifts that could potentially compromise the independence of the Member should be regarded as unacceptable: two ways of getting to the same goal.
I repeat, even without either of these amendments, I shall personally be voting for the Nordmann report tomorrow but I think it would be a little clearer and a little more precise if we could find some way of making more exact what the Nordmann report has in mind.

In conclusion, let me say a word about transparency.
I agree very much with Mr Ford that the enormous majority of colleagues in this House behave honourably, conscientiously, and that what is important is to convince the European electorate that is the case.
I do not regard there as being enormous skeletons in the closet, terrible secrets to be uncovered.
But we rightly in this European Parliament demand transparency of the Council.
We regard the Council as having the obligation to be seen to be acting fairly and constructively.
In demanding more transparency of the Council we are not accusing the Council of corruption.
We are merely saying that that is something which all the electors of Europe have a right to see and to have firmly established.
What is right for the Council, it seems, is right for the European Parliament.
That is why I and my group support the general underlying philosophy of the Nordmann report.

One final thought, if I may.
Oscar Wilde once said that when two people had the same opinion, one at least of them is superfluous.
In agreeing with the philosophy and opinions of Mr Nordmann, I hope very much that I will render neither him nor myself superfluous, but I wish him all the best of luck for tomorrow and I am quite confident he will get the majority he deserves.