This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Frederic LaCourt:

Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, may I say first of all that I am pleased that the general issue regarding Parliaments role in Euratom agreements has been settled and I can assure you that the Commission services will implement the practical arrangements we have arrived at.
Before setting those out, I want to say that I very much agree with what Mr Tindemanns said about the role of KEDO as part of our Asian strategy and being an important contribution to it.
We will come to North Korea in a moment but we have to look at our policy with regard to the region as one which has to be integrated, comprehensive and positive.
As far as the problems we have had with Euratom agreements, I am grateful for what has been said about my own role in resolving them.
I can assure you that I absolutely agree with Mr Brinkhorst that times have changed and we have to reflect that in what we are doing.

The measures the Commission intends to take are set out in a letter that I have sent to the President of the European Parliament today.
That letter states first that at the beginning of each year, the Commission will provide a list of all the relevant Euratom agreements under Article  101 ( 2 ) which are under negotiation or for which negotiations are to be launched in the coming year.
This list will be regularly updated and forwarded to Parliament under the necessary conditions of confidentiality.
Secondly, the Commission will provide oral information on request to the relevant parliamentary committee on the conduct of the negotiations under the necessary conditions of confidentiality.

Thirdly, the Commission will forward the proposals for conclusion of the relevant Euratom agreements to the Parliament at the same time as they are forwarded to the Council for approval.
That is a significant procedural innovation since it provides a guarantee to Parliament that it will be informed before the Council has taken a position on the conclusion of these agreements.
Thus Parliament will have the opportunity to make its views known before a decision is taken to conclude the agreement in line with the commitments made in our earlier exchange of letters.

I should add that the time it takes for the Council to reach a decision on conclusion is generally fairly lengthy.
That leaves ample time for Parliament to express its view if it so wishes.
In those cases where the Council may wish to take a particularly rapid decision, the Commission will duly inform the Parliament of this possibility.
Fourthly, by way of a letter, information will be provided on the relevant agreements under Article  101 ( 2 ) Euratom which are currently either under negotiation or for which a decision or conclusion has not yet been taken.
The agreements referred to represent all agreements covered by Article  101 ( 2 ) Euratom which are under negotiation or for which negotiations are to be launched in the coming year.

Finally, in order to ensure that there is no further misunderstanding between the Commission and Parliament, the Commission will also convey separately to the Parliament all relevant texts and agreements which should have been covered by our understanding during the latter half of last year and the beginning of this year.
That is what the letter says.

With respect to the report on the KEDO Accession Agreement it is a wellpresented and interesting document which addresses the fundamental aspects of the KEDO initiative.
The visit of the parliamentary delegation to North Korea was regarded in a very positive way by the international community and I am grateful for the degree of attention Parliament has given to KEDO.
I particularly endorse the conclusion which states that Parliament considers that the European Union should play a role in reducing the risk of nuclear weapons proliferation, increasing nuclear safety and encouraging the development of better relations between the DPRK and its neighbours and that membership of KEDO will enable it the better to play that role.

We are fully playing that role in the implementation of the Accession Agreement.
We attend all KEDO board meetings and negotiating meetings with North Korea.
The EU has staff in KEDO, including at director level, is following the procurement aspects  and here I can assure Mr Ford that we have every intention of ensuring that Europe gets a fair crack of the whip  and Europe has the chairmanship of the important International Nuclear Safety Advisory Group.
We are paying our financial contribution which helps to ensure that the DPRK respects its nonproliferation pledges and we were pleased to note that the DPRK is now going to allow access to the socalled underground facility so as to allay international concerns.
Security aspects are fundamental to peace and stability on the peninsular and the KEDO project is contributing to reconciliation between the two Korean governments.
Indeed, it is a unique example of South and North Koreans working together.

KEDO itself is a special organisation where we are cooperating actively with our American, Japanese and South Korean partners to help improve security in NorthEast Asia.
North Korea is also aware of our involvement not only through KEDO but also via the political dialogue which I shall refer to in answer to the question and by the European Union food aid programme.
Indeed, it is the case that the Commission negotiators have recently reached an ad referendum agreement with their DPRK counterparts on conditions for a new EUR 30 m aid programme for  1999 .
So we are contributing to a process of engagement with North Korea, seeking to encourage it to become a more responsible member of the international community.

We have to be realistic.
There is an important, difficult and ongoing task to ensure security in NorthEast Asia and underpin the global nonproliferation regime.
KEDO is a key part of that task and we will continue to remain in close contact with Parliament in the implementation of our participation in it.
We will have to start preparing soon for the future of our participation in KEDO because the current agreement expires at the end of the year  2000  and we will be in close contact with Parliament following the procedures I referred to earlier.
So I am very gratified to see that Parliaments opinion records approval of the Accession Agreement which will allow the release of the funds for the  1999  financial contribution.
It is true that broader financial problems remain but the first thing we have to do is to play our part.

Turning to the question from Mr Spencer on the broader issue of relations with North Korea, I welcome the visit that was paid by the Members of the European Parliament to North Korea and I am glad that it was a successful bonding exercise.
The negotiations I have had with the Members of the Parliament to deal with the KEDO problem have been a similar bonding exercise and I thank all concerned.
There is no doubt at all, as far as relations with North Korea are concerned, that a crisis in the Korean Peninsular would have farreaching consequences in NorthEast Asia and beyond and we have a responsibility, commensurate with our new role in seeking to be involved politically in that part of Asia, to do what we can to avoid it.

President Kim Dae Jung has strongly advocated greater international engagement as a way of handling the problem and I can certainly assure you that we fully support, as Mr Brinkhorst has urged us to do, President Kims sunshine policy.
America too is conducting a wideranging review of its policy under former Defense Secretary Perry.
We have been pursuing a policy of limited engagement illustrated by the food aid and other assistance programmes, as well as by KEDO.
We are currently discussing how that policy may now be taken further forward.
An important factor will of course be the policies which the DPRK itself pursues in key areas such as security issues, relations with neighbouring countries, human rights and so on.
We also have to take account of the need to support our key partners in their dealings with the DPRK.
The EU regularly exchanges views with our dialogue partners, including the United States, the Republic of Korea and Japan with regard to the situation on the Korean Peninsular.
The idea that was put forward for further development in the energy sector is certainly one that we want to consider.
Possibilities are being considered, including a study into alternative energy sources andor the coal sector rehabilitation.

On the political side we obviously have to tread warily but not so warily that we do not make progress.
That is the course we shall pursue and I am grateful to Parliament for its support for it.