This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Nancy Reid:

Mr President, I am very glad to be able to present my report on the water framework directive for this first reading.
The path of this proposal has been almost as tortuous as a salmon swimming upstream.
I should like to acknowledge the personal contribution of my colleague, Mr Collins, in the long haul that has finally brought us to this first reading.
In  1995  Mr Collins chaired Parliaments hearing on water policy that gave birth to the water framework directive.
Perhaps we should call it the water baby, and he will be heartened to see his baby at last christened by this Parliament before he leaves us later this year.
I should like to pay tribute to the little puddle of water rapporteurs  also present at the christening ceremony  which include my colleagues, Mr Florenz, Mrs Schleicher, Mr Eisma and Mr Collins himself, who also has a water report.
We have developed amongst us an esprit du corps , whereby we have become waterminded, and that is a very useful thing to have done.

This proposal provides an historic opportunity to secure the Unions most basic need for adequate supplies of good quality water for todays and tomorrows generations.
Its outcome will determine the future of the Unions water resources well beyond the Millennium.
Reform of the Unions water policy is overdue and welcome.
Piecemeal evolution has resulted in an incoherent body of legislation, with differing and sometimes conflicting methods, definitions and aims.
The perilous state of much of the Unions water resources is plain to see from the evidence provided to us by the Environment Agency in Copenhagen.

The first report on Europes environment  the socalled Dobris assessment  sets out the problems in a clear manner and last year saw the publication of another assessment by the Environment Agency.
Comparison of the two reports shows that progress still has to be made.
The Dobris assessment reported that a quarter of Europes rivers are of poor or bad quality, with either sparse populations of fish or completely devoid of fish.
Last years assessment noted that there has been no overall improvement in river quality.
There has not been any significant improvement in groundwater quality since the first assessment.
Europes groundwater is endangered and polluted in several ways, we are told.
Problems include pollution by nitrates, pesticides, heavy metals and hydrocarbons, leading to eutrophication, toxic impacts in other parts of the water environment and possible effects upon human health.
Moreover, despite the numerous international agreements and many statements of good intent, the implementation of Union water legislation remains poor.

The Commission, having taken part  and I am grateful to them for that  in the hearing which took place in  1995 , produced its communication in February  1996 .
Following Parliaments response to the communication, a dialogue has been continuing between the Commission and myself.
In that dialogue I voiced the concerns of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection about the early proposal.
The Commission is to be congratulated on its response in providing detailed annexes and basic definitions missing from the original.
I am also heartened by the constructive attitude of the present German presidency.

Before Parliament today there are  12  compromise amendments dealing with important issues where, in the spirit of the Amsterdam Treaty yet to be ratified, I am pleased to present the results of a recent trialogue between myself, the Commission and the Council.
These compromise amendments show a new willingness to move towards the Environment Committees position on wetlands, public participation, marine monitoring and underground gas storage.

This is, and has had to be, a complicated proposal.
It aims to promote a sustainable use of water resources.
Member States will be obliged to achieve good status for all surface and ground waters by a set date.
Good status means a healthy ecosystem and a low level of pollution.
These targets will be achieved by riverbasin management plans and backed up by Unionwide limits on pollution.
The proposal sets out how Member States must identify river basins, appoint river basin authorities and ensure that they produce plans.
The plans will stipulate what must happen for good status to be achieved, including pollution control, promoting more efficient use of water, regulating obstruction and introducing a charging system.

My suggestions for the reform of the Commission proposal are designed to address the considerable problems which continue to undermine the implementation of Union water policy.
At the same time, my amendments seek to create a water policy framework which is both practical and ambitious.
I urge that a tougher regime of pollution control is needed, the goal for the longer term, already contained in international conventions such as OSPAR, HELCOM and Barcelona, to which the EU and Member States are signatory, is the eventual phasing out of toxic substances.

In conclusion, I should like to repeat the importance of the proposal before us.
What can be more important to the future of the Community than secure and abundant supplies of healthy water.
This is the first piece of Community water legislation to apply to all surface and ground waters.
It bases the management of these waters firmly on the principle of sustainable development.