This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Alastair Corless:

All the European Member States adopted the Beijing Platform for Action.
We committed ourselves to  12  areas.
They are all indispensable for womens full enjoyment of their human rights.
Five years later it is time for an evaluation.

The first area is poverty.
We pledged to adopt macroeconomic policies for the needs of women in poverty and to ensure womens equal access to economic resources.
But single mothers and older women remain the main victims of poverty.

The second area is education.
We promised to ensure womens equal access to science and technology and lifelong education.
Unfortunately, education of women and men still follows a stereotyped pattern.

The third area is health.
We agreed to increase resources for womens health.
Yet middleaged and elderly women remain beset, more than men, with health problems.
Maternity and child mortality are still too high.

The fourth area is violence.
We promised to eliminate genderbased violence, yet violence against women remains the single largest injury to European women.
Between  15  and  25  of women are battered during pregnancy and sexual trafficking is increasing, while only  2  to  3  of those men who commit rape go to prison.

The fifth area is armed conflict.
We promised to increase womens participation in conflict resolution and protect women in armed conflicts, yet women still make up the overwhelming majority of those affected by armed conflict but are absent from peace negotiations and peace transition initiatives.

The sixth area is women and the economy.
We pledged to promote womens access to employment and control over economic resources.
Women remain virtually absent from or are poorly represented in economic decision making.
Women earn, on average,  75  of the hourly wages of men and their employment rate is about  20  lower.

Decision making is the seventh area.
We promised to ensure womens equal access to, and full participation in, power structures and decision making, yet nowhere is the gap between de jure and de facto gender equality greater than in the area of decision making.

The eighth area is institutional mechanisms for the advancement of women.
We agreed to mainstream gender in legislation, public policies and programmes.
Unfortunately, the political will has been absent.
Gender mainstreaming and gender impact assessment are far from a reality.

Womens human rights is the ninth area.
We promised to fully implement the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women.
Today there is still insufficient recognition of the principle that human rights apply equally to women and men.

The tenth area is media.
We pledged to promote a nonstereotyped portrayal of women in the media yet, as a result of massive male domination of media power, the media continue to project negative and degrading images of women.

The eleventh area is environment.
The European Members pledged to involve women actively in environmental decision making.
Womens experience and skill remain insufficiently used in environmental policy actions.

The twelfth and last area is the girl child.
We promised to eliminate all forms of discrimination against the girl child, yet statistics show that a girl child is discriminated against from the earliest stages of life, through her childhood and into adulthood.

This is the discouraging result five years after Beijing and after  25  years of effort since the United Nations incurred the responsibility for promoting womens rights at national, regional and international levels.
It is high time for the UN Beijing plus five special session in June next year to take concrete action to implement the Beijing platform.
An actionoriented plan for advancing the Beijing goals is necessary if all governments are to implement strategies for gender equality in all  12  critical areas of concern.

The European Union must play a truly active role.
The preparatory work at European level is already far advanced.
The European Union work must be speeded up so it can have a real influence before positions are fixed at international level.
Our question is: how will the Commission and the Council ensure that Parliament becomes a real partner, both in the preparatory work on the European Union input to Beijing plus five, and in the European Unions official delegation to the New York Conference?