This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Alastair Finlayson:

Mr President, I warmly welcome the Foreign Secretary of the United Kingdom as PresidentinOffice of the Council to Parliament this morning.
I wish him every success in his presidency on behalf of the people of Europe.
I thank him for his very extensive address to Parliament.
I endorse the priorities of the presidency, which he clearly outlined.

I strongly endorse the priority which the presidency proposes to give to the objective of showing the peoples of Europe that the European Union is working for them in practical ways.
This objective will only be achieved if it can be clearly demonstrated to the majority of people that the European Union is relevant to their daytoday concerns and that the Union can contribute to finding solutions to the problems in our society.

The issue of most widespread concern at the present time is crime.
There are very few people in any of our countries who have not themselves been the victims of criminal acts or whose families have not been affected by crime one way or another.
Practically every night television news bulletins bring stories into our homes of more and more horrendous crimes being perpetrated by evil people, often against defenceless people in our society, such as young children or the very old.
Large numbers of our people are concerned over their personal safety or the safety of their families.
In many of our communities house breakins, muggings and violent attacks are considered to be more commonplace than had been the case years ago.

The underlying cause for a large proportion of these crimes is drug dependency and the abuse of illegal drugs.
Illegal drugs seem to be readily available nowadays both in terms of quantity and variety, particularly to young people.
The abuse of these drugs poses a serious health risk to impressionable young people who are persuaded to experiment with them.
The drug dependency and addiction which ultimately follows for many of these people can only be satisfied through the proceeds of crime.
It is this type of drugrelated crime which is posing a serious risk to many of our communities.

I believe that the European Union can make a major contribution towards tackling the scourge of drug abuse by concentrating its resources in a coordinated manner with the national authorities on tackling the international drugs trade.

The illegal drugs trade is now a sophisticated international business.
The fight against this trade, if it is to be effective, must also be sophisticated and international in scope.
Those of us who participated in the negotiations for the Maastricht Treaty had hoped that Europol would be the agency which would provide national authorities with the intelligence and information on money laundering, illegal drug production and smuggling, which they required to prosecute those responsible for the drugs being distributed to our communities.
Many years later I am disappointed to see yet another presidency having to list as one of its objectives that of finishing the preparations for the establishment of Europol.
The only people who could be happy with these disgraceful delays are those involved in the illegal drugs trade.

Nonetheless, I warmly welcome the British Presidencys commitment to getting Europol established and its interest in promoting international efforts to tackle the illegal drugs business.
I will be supportive of any such proposals which come before this Parliament.

During the British Presidency decisions will be made concerning those countries which will be included in the first wave of participants in the single currency.
While I appreciate that Britain will not be one of these countries, it is nonetheless important that all countries, even those not participating in the single currency from day one, should be actively involved in the preparatory and planning phases for the launch of the euro because of the potential impact of this currency on all our economies, whether inside or outside the single currency zone.

A critically important aspect of the launch of the new currency will be the attitude of individual citizens to the euro.
The PresidentinOffice will recall the reticence, concern and even fearful response of many British and, indeed, Irish citizens to the decimalization of our respective currencies during the  1960 s.
In the leadin to decimalization the importance of establishing a high degree of consumer confidence was perhaps not fully understood.
I believe that the same risk exists today.
It is vitally important that the European institutions, as well as national governments, undertake a comprehensive process of education amongst all sectors of the population and not just amongst the financial and business community, as seems to be mainly the case at present.

When the euro is launched it will be necessary to exchange money held in present currencies for the new currency.
This requirement may well provide a useful opportunity for the authorities to identify the assets of criminals and to take appropriate action.
I hope that the presidency will ensure that the initiatives necessary to identify criminal assets are put in place and in good time to avail of the opportunity.

The work programme submitted by the presidency suggests that efforts will also be made over the next six months to make progress in the negotiations on the reform of the common agricultural policy.
Clearly the Commissions detailed proposals will need to be tabled before any significant progress can be made in this matter.
Final agreement on reform of the CAP should be preceded by a lengthy and comprehensive debate spread over a number of presidencies.
This reform will have major political significance, not just for our future relations with East European countries, but also for our rural areas, for food policy and for the millions of farmers and workers involved.

Finally, the presidency has identified environmental policy as one of its priorities.
In this regard I would hope that it will give due consideration to resolving a longtime existing environmental problem of major concern to your neighbours in Ireland  the problem of continued discharges of radioactive material into the Irish Sea from the Sellafield complex.