This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Katarina LaCourt:

Mr President, I shall try to comment on all the interesting contributions to this debate.
Some have commented that Parliament must be the first to receive the material the Court produces, be it our annual report or the special reports we produce throughout the year.
Let me make an unequivocal and clear statement that this is absolutely the rule we shall obey, that this Assembly will be the first to receive our reports.

If I may add one thing immediately to the point made by Mr Poms Ruiz: I entirely agree with him that you must make very special requirements of a Court of Auditors, that it must be like Caesars wife.
But what has happened in this case is that the Court has found out who was guilty of leaking the draft annual report to the press, and has taken the appropriate measures.
All of us know that this is not the only time that information on classified material has been passed on.
What has happened hitherto is that the Court has established this.
I hope we can continue to do the same in every case but I would not deny, as President of the Court of Auditors, that special demands could be put on us as a result.

Many speakers have pointed out the responsibility of Member States.
I can only confirm that this is a positive response to the challenge of Member States willingness to fight fraud, to put their house in order, to enhance control systems, a challenge that we have pointed out in the annual report may be even greater this year, while not for one minute diminishing the role and the responsibility of the Commission in this context.
The Commission must, at the same time, dare to impose clear demands and requirements on the Member States control systems.

Ms Morgan asked me a clearcut question: is there something specific in this annual report that should make Parliament not grant discharge?
Let me underline what the Courts role is in this context: it is to give you all the material we find it appropriate and advisable to put forward, and leave it to you to make the political decision on discharge.

I will only say that the question that needs to be asked is whether the Commission has done everything in its power to remedy the shortcomings that have been pointed out.
I would certainly not make any specific detailed remark on any one point.
It is the overall material that has been produced both in this annual reports and in the special report we have produced, and will produce, that should be the basis for Parliaments decision on this point.

I would underline what Mrs van der Laan pointed out concerning fraud in the Union, and would point out that, judging from press reports about fraud in general and attacks on public budgets, you would think the European budget was more vulnerable than any.

This is, of course, not true.
What has been stated many times is that this is a problem that all countries, both in their regional and national budgets, have to fight.

May I take this opportunity to point out that the Chairman of the Committee on Budgetary Control, Mrs Theato and myself addressed jointly a contact committee of all the presidents of Member States national audit offices and the Court of Auditors, just to point out to these key people that fighting fraud in European funds is also a national task.
This is a clear example of Parliament and the Court of Auditors working to draw this to the attention of the Member States.

I agree with Mr Staes that this is no bedtime reading and I was very worried when they started to put out the lights, but because of Mr DellAlbas courageous intervention this was stopped.

I would also stress that the work undertaken in constructing OLAF has to be continued.
In the Courts special report on the UCLAF activities we have pointed to a number of proposals that we think both Parliament and Member States should undertake, concerning a European prosecutor and other measures to continue the fight against fraud.

To Mrs Eriksson I would say that it has been customary for me to speak English.
This is the first time I have spoken in Parliament.
I am making my maiden speech, just like Mr van Hulten.
My speaking English has to do with the fact that we have English and French as working languages.
When I was to begin this speech, I was far too nervous to dare to express myself in the language of honour and chivalry.
I nonetheless believe that I should have managed if I had really put my mind to it.

I think that, following a habit already established in the Budgetary Control Committee, I will stick to my second language and I hope that you will forgive me for this national treason.

Mr Bsch, I agree with you and I think everybody agrees with you that there are special requirements to be placed on those parts of the budget which are managed by the Commission itself.

I have already underlined that it is important that the Commission should also shoulder its responsibility concerning the Member States; but when it comes to internal policies, external aid and personnel administration, we can put clearer demands on the Commission and we can also deal with it differently when it comes to the statement of assurance, something which we have started to do and will continue to do.

I congratulate Mr van Hulten on his first speech here.
I agree with him as regards the need in our work to reassure taxpayers that their money is being spent well and I also underline, as Mrs van der Laan has done, the need for Member States also to fight fraud.

Mr Schori asked me about my conclusions, or the conclusions of the Court of Auditors, concerning events in the Stockholm representation of the Commission.
I have two reflections to make; one being that this shows that the only way to cope with problems of this kind is to have functioning internal control systems.
There has to be, whenever expenditure of European money is concerned, an internal control system which is efficient and reliable so that the external controller can ascertain whether systems function and not go through every detail of administration.
The other is that I have also publicly stated that this is a test case for the Commissions willingness to reform its disciplinary procedures, of which we are very critical and which I know that the Commission also intends to do something about.

I have already pointed out in my first speech the same problem that Mr Blak brought up  that staff administration has to be improved.
As for Mrs Eriksson, who asked me why we do not audit the European Investment Fund, we asked the Council when it was established whether we should do so and the reply was no and that is why.
I do not agree with the Council but it is the Council that decides.

Finally, I will make a general comment on what Mrs Schreyer pointed out in her speech.
As you can hear, the attitude of the Commission to this annual report is to take it to its heart and to start embarking upon the reform programme we are discussing today.

Let me say, on behalf of the European Court of Auditors, that we hope that we can, in a climate of dialogue and openness, work together to see to it that this new Commission can carry out the reform that we are eagerly looking forward to.