This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Victor MacLeod:

Mr President, all parliamentary systems delegate implementing measures to the executive.
They do not immerse themselves in too much detail.
But what is peculiar about the European Unions system is that during all those years when the Council alone acted as the legislative authority, it was willing to delegate implementing measures to the Commission only on condition that a committee of national civil servants would work with the Commission.

We had three objections to such a system.
Firstly, there were so many committees set up with so many different procedures with nobody quite sure who sat on which that there was a major problem of transparency.

Secondly, these committees set up by the Council or the Member States had the right to block an implementing measure from the Commission and refer them back, but Parliament had no such right.
This was only possible for Council committees, not Parliaments.

Thirdly, if a measure was blocked and referred back to the legislative authority, it was referred to Council alone, not Parliament and Council jointly, even though they jointly constitute the legislative authority.
That we have found unacceptable.

With codecision, though, it is now Parliament and Council jointly and equally which will decide on what measures to confer upon the Commission and what procedures will be adopted.
We will use that power, Mr President  and I warn the Council that we are determined to use that power  to ensure firstly that there is openness and transparency (and I welcome the progress that has been made in that respect in the Council working group), but secondly to ensure that there is equality between Parliament and Council.
In other words, if Council committees have the right to block the Commission and refer a measure back then Parliament should also have that right.
And if a measure is referred back to the legislative authority it should be referred to both branches of the legislative authority, not just to one branch.

There are some who claim that Parliament wishes to immerse itself in the detail of implementing measures.
That is far from being the case: this is in the nature of a safeguard, the right to blow the whistle occasionally where you think that things may be going wrong.
That is a right that exists in many national parliaments,  not in all of them, national systems differ on this, but it is one that should apply at the European Union level.

If you look at the way we have used this power in the informal procedures that already exist, it is actually very unusual for parliaments to intervene and to blow the whistle.
We have done it occasionally  infant formulae milk is a notable example.
We blew the whistle, the Commission entered into a dialogue with us, changed its proposal and that was ultimately what was adopted.
It worked.
But it is very unusual.
We do not want to do it very often, but we want the right to intervene when necessary.
If we have that right then we will be much more willing to delegate more measures, knowing that we have that safeguard in place.
But if we do not have that right, then we will be very reticent to adopt fargoing implementing provisions.
We will want to hold it back in the legislative procedures.
We will not want to delegate.
I warn the Council that although it has made progress on transparency, if the working group continues to be so restrictive on Parliaments rights to intervene, then there will be no agreement and we will continue in legislative procedure after legislative procedure to block the comitology measures and resist the adoption of such restrictive measures and we will be very restrictive on voting the budgets and the credits to allow comitologytype committees to continue to meet.

We are not seeking to take powers to ourselves to intervene in the detail but we are seeking to have the safeguard.
That safeguard is very important.
It is the principle on which we will insist and unless agreement is reached in this matter I can tell Council that codecision procedure after codecision procedure will have to go all the way to conciliation and time after time there will be difficulty on this problem.

I invite Council to take the last few steps to reach an agreement with us on this.