This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Jennifer Bush:

Mr President, we are entering the last year of this budget cycle.
In budgetary terms it can be said that Parliament has made much progress, together with the Commission and the Council.
We have now established ourselves as a credible institution.
This year the payments on the budget will be about the same as the overall growth of the national budgets.
As far as the legal base agreement is concerned, we have now done precisely what we promised.

Unfortunately the same cannot yet be said of the Council.
I appreciate the work of this presidency, as I have always appreciated every presidency, but there is a structural problem in the Council.
The structural problem is that the General Affairs Council, as the presidency itself recognises, is no longer a Council of arbitration.
Ministers of Foreign Affairs have lost overall control of general policies in the Community.
That means that the Budget Council, in this particular case, remains the accounting body it has always been.
An example has been given by Mrs Dhrkop Dhrkop, our very creative rapporteur for this year: Leonardo.
We have seen similar instances in the separate positions on agriculture.
That problem still needs to be tackled.
I hope that the presidency will have more success at second reading that at first reading.
It is a structural problem and unless we achieve progress there I do not believe that the budget can, in the future, be the kind of policy instrument which really sets the right priorities.

The first priority, as set out by Mrs Dhrkop Drhkop in her general approach is that we must prepare ourselves for the period  20002006 , hopefully with financial perspectives and a fully fledged interinstitutional agreement.
But in order to achieve that Parliament has to prepare itself.
We have therefore followed the overall strategy which means setting an overall reserve  not for use in financial terms, but for use as a base for the coming period.It is against that background that I also supported the amendment  not because we want to simply increase the amount of money but because we want to send a particular signal.
If that means that we have finally to reduce the amount to fit into the overall strategy, I hope that can be done.

I have just one other point on external affairs, regarding Turkey.
Our colleague, Mr Wynn, made the point that it is very clear that the Council again has not been very consistent on Turkey.
Turkey should be part of an overall structure for the European Union.
It is the financial cooperation which still does not have a legal base.
We will put forward an amendment for the budget resolution to make it clear that we expect the Council to come forward with that.
If there is one Member State blocking it, I hope the Council can finally come to an arrangement on that.

A budget must reflect priorities.
It is against that background that we were very happy indeed that on one of the key issues of our time  asylum and refugees  Parliament has taken an initiative which is supported by all groups in this House.
It is supported because we believe that setting up a European refugee fund can mark the beginning of a policy of solidarity.
I make a special appeal to the presidency.
Some of the points of the presidencys paper on Geneva have perhaps been misunderstood.
But it is important to realise that solidarity must begin with financial solidarity.
If we want to have a policy of overall burdensharing, the European Community must have an instrument in its hand.
That was the background to the discussions of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs.
Some of us in the House took the initiative of really trying to develop the pilot projects.
I hope that the Council will, next year, create a legal base.
That legal base will then be the basis of an asylum and refugee policy which can finally be in the first pillar and be a real policy of the European Union.

On the issue of ECHO, I only want to repeat what others have said before.
It is important that we have a real approach of substance.
We appreciate very much the work of Commissioners Liikanen and Gradin.
But there is still a problem in the Commission as a whole.
It is against that background that the issue of ECHO must be taken up.
As a group we are against putting UCLAF into a separate box.
I think the Commissioner knows this.
But we want to give a signal.
The signal received from President Santer is a signal which we very much appreciate.
We will also vote for unblocking it in the reserve and putting it on the line.
It is not a question of playing with humanitarian issues.
It is simply that in the first reading it is important to give a concrete signal.

Regarding travel allowances, I am getting sick and tired of this whole issue, as are many of us.
But our group has taken a very specific position  which is shared by many, but not all  namely, no other organisation tolerates travel costs higher than the real costs.
It is against that background that the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party has been pleading for a long time for real costs.
Of course we realise that a statute must be forthcoming but that statute is the prime responsibility of the Council.
We can do no better at this stage than take a concrete position which will finally be a position of courage and give a signal that this House is in order.