This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Christoph Reid:

Member of the Commission.
 Mr President, it is a pleasure to be here today to talk about children and also about the report you will adopt shortly.

Let me talk for a few minutes about how we got to where we are today, and what will come in the future, and about child participation, which is most likely our biggest challenge regarding children.

Today is an important step in a long process that started several years ago internally in the Commission.
We recognise that the EU needs a strategy on children.
We need a strategy on how we, the European Union, will implement the commitments.
We and the rest of the world have signed up to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.

The first step was the Commission communication Towards an EU Strategy on the Rights of the Child in  2006 .
This was followed in  2008  by the communication package on children in external actions, which outlined a comprehensive approach to children by the EU using all available instruments in external cooperation.

Let me digress for a moment, since I am convinced that some of you will be asking the question: what about the EU strategy on the rights of the child, which was announced in the abovementioned communication?
I can confirm that the Commission is working on such a strategy, which will be presented under the next Commission.

During the Slovenian Presidency in May  2008 , the Council adopted conclusions on the promotion and protection of the rights of the child in the European Unions external action  the development of humanitarian dimensions.

The Committee on Development then started drafting a report.
We are now at the end of this process and tomorrow, you will be voting on this excellent report.

In addition, the EUs policy on children is based on the two EU guidelines  the Guidelines on Children in Armed Conflicts and the Guidelines on the Rights of the Child  both being implemented in a number of selected priority and pilot countries.
The Commission welcomes the report  which is an excellent complement to our communication  the Council conclusions and the guidelines.
We will surely use it in our work on children.

Let me focus my final comments on what is probably our biggest challenge today: child participation.
How do we ensure that we involve children in decisions that concern them?
How do we ensure that children have access to pertinent information?
How do we ensure equal access for children to express their views?
We have to recognise that, amongst everything that we all agreed to in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, this might be the major challenge.

We have to admit that we are still far from achieving anything significant in the area of child participation.
In the Commission, we are starting to reflect on how to design and implement proper child participation that is not just tokenism.
It should be relevant, meaningful and informed child participation.
We have also ensured relevant funding for child participation under the thematic programme Investing in People.

Why is this difficult for us adults?
Essentially, because it questions what is fundamental to us: the way we behave.

What will the Commission do in its external action to promote this participation?
The Commission will make the tools available for our delegations to consult children, but these tools will be used not only by our delegations but also by partner countries.
We are also developing a tool kit, together with UNICEF, that should not only address child participation but also overall child protection, legal reform, child budgeting.

In addition to the tool kit, we are also recasting and strengthening our collaboration with UNICEF in general in order to be able to improve our support to partner countries in their efforts to ensure that children have a voice at country level.

We also cooperate closely with various NGOs to learn from them about possible formats, often involving children and having meaningful child participation.
Let me be honest: it is not going to happen tomorrow.
This is just the start of a long process.

Let me just make one comment on the report.
The report underlines how the Commission should pay attention to child participation, but, colleagues, you will also have to do so, and I can assure you that the Commission will be happy to work with you on advancing this.
We should build on the collective force of the two institutions to advance this important issue.

Let me once again express the Commissions appreciation of the report and underline that we will do our utmost to carry out these recommendations.
We are counting on the continued support of Parliament in this area.

In answer to Ms Kinnocks question, I am happy to confirm that the position of the Commission has not changed.
The idea of using  2009  for consultations was launched in the Commission itself and we are working to put in place the conditions for a process of consultation with children that avails itself of all existing tools.

Let me also underline that the Commission is keen to ensure a process of consultation that fully respects the rights of the child.

Finally, let me thank you, Ms Kinnock, for a very fruitful collaboration on children and childrelated issues, not only as regards this report, but also over the years.
I know that I was too long, but you can never be too long when you are talking about childrens rights.