This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Katarina Whittacker:

Member of the Commission.
Madam President, firstly I would like to commend the rapporteur, Mr YaezBarnuevo Garca, for his report.
Let there be no doubt: terrorism is a threat to all states and to all peoples.
It is criminal and it is unjustifiable under any circumstances.
The Commission therefore fully shares the view of the report that terrorism constitutes an important threat to security, to peace, stability and the democratic values on which the European Union is founded.

The Commission also shares the objective of combating terrorism globally while respecting human rights.
All antiterrorist measures must be consistent with both international humanitarian law and international human rights law.

While largely agreeing with the report, I would like to comment on two points.
Firstly, the report is calling for the adoption of a definition of terrorism.
Since the UN has not yet agreed on a definition and since such an agreement still seems distant, although we are working towards that, I would like to recall that relevant universal conventions and protocols already provide a common legal understanding of what constitutes an act of terrorism.
The Union also has a definition of terrorist acts in its framework decision on terrorism.
These are solid legal foundations.

Secondly, the report calls for the extension of the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court to include acts of terrorism as crimes against humanity.
I think we should be cautious, before altering the definition of crimes against humanity included in the ICC Statute.
Such an endeavour might be counterproductive in the efforts to broaden support for the Court.
The complex relationship between international humanitarian law and the definition of terrorism may lead to further complications.

The Commission welcomes the interest of the Parliament on the external aspects of the fight against terrorism.
In the current environment of open borders, efforts to fight against terrorism, internally and externally, are aspects that are closely linked.
It goes without saying that VicePresident Frattini and I are working closely together in order to make these efforts mutually reinforcing.
We strongly agree on the need to support the United Nations consistently with our policy of effective multilateralism.

Equally, the emphasis put on prevention is very important for the Commission.
Conditions conducive to the spread of terrorism need to be tackled.
Tackling the root causes of terrorism lies at the heart of our external policies, and the reports recommendations for a more coherent and effective EU policy also largely go in the right direction.

Let me highlight the important contribution that the Commission makes to the fight against terrorism.
Firstly, with Member States, the Commission is implementing the  2005  EU counterterrorism strategy, of which our colleague and President has talked.
Terrorism also features regularly during meetings with our partners and in international organisations.
For example, as I speak, a major meeting is under way with Commission participation in Berlin in order to prepare the Heiligendamm Summit of the G 8  in the areas of terrorism and organised crime.

Secondly, the Commission is an important provider of capacitybuilding assistance to some  80  third countries aimed at improving governance and administrative capacities in related areas.
A number of priority fields mentioned in the report, such as border management and terrorist financing, are priorities for Community assistance.

Thirdly, the Commission is working in new areas which should improve EU action in the fight against terrorism, such as the protection of critical infrastructure, the fight against violent radicalisation and terrorist recruitment, bioterrorism, radiological threats, explosive detection technologies, terrorist use of the internet, as well as terrorism in the context of crisis management, and there are obvious links to our efforts in fighting organised crime and drug trafficking.
Afghanistan is, for instance, a serious case in point.

Finally, and in reply to one of the requests of this report, the Commission wishes to confirm that it intends to produce a communication in the course of  2007  focusing on global and transregional security challenges.
The focus will include key aspects relevant to human security and focus on counterterrorism.
You may be aware of my personal commitment to support the human security discourse.
What better way could there be to address conditions conducive to the spread of terrorism than to promote both freedom from fear and freedom from want.

Despite what is being done, I think we can all agree that we must work together and enhance our collective performance in fighting against terrorism.
We will try to play our part, but we are certain that the collective effort with Parliament will be a more important one.