This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Roger Smith:

Member of the Commission.
 Mr President, I am pleased to participate in this exchange of views with the European Parliament on the European Unions relationship with Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia, the three countries of the South Caucasus.
I already had a very good discussion on the South Caucasus with the members of the Foreign Affairs Committee on  28  April, shortly after my visit to the region.

I welcome this report as a valuable contribution to the reflection on how the European Union can build an even stronger and broader relationship with Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia.
Let me recall that we have a solid framework of engagement, namely, the wellestablished European Neighbourhood Policy and the Eastern Partnership launched last year.
The former continues to be one of the European Unions top priorities for its external relations.
Successful implementation of the latter, with the active engagement of the partner countries, will further strengthen our relations on the basis of shared values.

Let me underline two very important milestones along this road.

Last week, the Commission published its third annual progress report for the South Caucasus countries.
The ENP action plans and the regular assessment of their implementation remain an essential tool to advance political and economic reforms in those countries as well as their cooperation with the European Union.

This time, we have chosen a fiveyear assessment for the European Neighbourhood Policy package.
The main objective is that we want to use the findings as a basis for extensive consultations with the Member States, with you here in the European Parliament, and with our partners in the neighbourhood, to get your  and their  feedback as to whether we have the right tools and instruments in place, whether the amount and the allocation of resources is appropriate, and whether the speed and the scope of our efforts are right and are going in the right direction.

The results will be presented in the framework of next years package, which should make our policy more coherent and which will, without doubt, lead to a higher degree of ownership by our neighbours.
It will also be an ideal opportunity to make our case for the provision of adequate resources by the next financial perspective very strong.

The second milestone is the authorisation by the Council, again last week, of the opening of the negotiations on association agreements with Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia.
The adoption of these negotiating directives is a clear signal of our strong commitment to further deepening the relationship between the European Union and the countries of the South Caucasus on the basis of shared values and principles including democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights.

The Commission is already preparing for such negotiations, which are expected to start within the next few months.
These two areas clearly demonstrate that the EU already has a wellestablished and comprehensive strategy for the South Caucasus, whose potential we are seeking to exploit to the fullest extent, a strategy to bring this region closer to the European Union.

In the light of the report by Mr Kirilov, which is a very valuable and much appreciated contribution, I conclude that the European Parliaments views converge very much with those of the Commission on a number of points.
The stability and security of the South Caucasus have a direct impact on Europe.
Therefore, the European Union shares the responsibility for supporting the peaceful resolution of conflict and confidencebuilding.
The South Caucasus matters to the European Union, not least due to its energy and transport links.
Improved governance and a stronger system of the rule of law will facilitate trade and investment as well as mobility of persons.
The new association agreements will expand the trade provisions under the partnership and cooperation agreements.

I believe that the European Union is on the right track in strengthening relations with Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia.
Let me stress, however, that the responsibility for the establishment of a constructive framework for engagement is a joint effort.
The commitment of our South Caucasus partners to approximation with Europe needs to be translated into further progress towards democracy, market economy and political stability on the ground.
I thus call on Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia to move forward in their efforts towards a modern, inclusive, pluralistic democratic and prosperous society at peace with their neighbours.