This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Amy LaCourt:

Mr President, I would like to remark that one Member of this House, Mr Goldsmith, who rarely favours us with his presence in debates on economic matters or indeed any matters at all, has said with huge media coverage that Europe is sleepwalking into EMU.
I consider that to be a gross insult to this House, to all the rapporteurs, to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, to the President of Ecofin and to President Santer and the Commission.

I would perhaps rather describe our progress as zigzagging, because if you look at the statements that were made, five States were said to be eligible, then it was four and recent coverage has suggested only two.
I would like to congratulate Ireland on having become the tiger economy of Europe and of being able to qualify.
Now my Group and my party in Scotland is in favour of EMU.
We consider it absurd to have a single market without the accompanying single currency.

I have the speaking time of Mr Sainjon who was taken ill, and I have agreed to say one or two things on his behalf.
He wants to see a single currency working to create employment, and Europe must concentrate its efforts on meeting this objective.
The euro must be regarded as the engine driving economic and social progress.
He says it represents three things for Europe today.
It will help to consolidate peace in our continent and among our peoples, of course any government moving in the right direction should be able to join, and we must watch that we do not overvalue the euro and so destroy a lot of our aims.

All the reports are excellent.
Starting with Mr Metten, I like the confident note in his report.
He is confident that at the third stage we will start with a sufficient number of Member States.
He also points out that an arithmetical application of the criteria is not possible, and if applied there would not be a sufficient number.
In his explanatory statement he points out we could either do this with a big bang or we could do it in the way we are, converging first and then creating the Union.

So we come to the need for flexibility which other speakers have mentioned.
This changes.
For instance, Denmark, which meets the criteria, has an interest rate  1   higher than some states that do not meet the criteria.
So it looks as if we still have some questions to be answered with regard to exactly what flexibility means.
When is a decline in deficit substantial?
When is a debt sufficiently diminishing?
What is a satisfactory pace?
Is there any limit to flexibility?
If we take Belgiums debt as being twice the permitted or suggested amount, would there ever be any limit to be imposed or are we just going to say if we are moving consistently and continuously in the right direction the state can qualify?
Is there any threat to the date of  1  January?

I would like to congratulate Mr Christodoulou on taking on board the economic aspects, the quest for job creation.
That was not always the attitude when I lodged amendments to that effect a year ago, but the groups seem to have come round to that.

With regard to the stability pact, I have a question for the Commission.
Are they going to make proposals for the surveillance of the outs ?
Are we going to treat Britain with an optout in the same way as other outs who want to get in?
If Britain does not want to get in and uses the optout, which I deplore, are they in the same position?
How many years will the surveillance obligation to report annually continue?

I agree with Mr Donnellys speech in its entirety and particularly his plea that we do fall into the trap of the proposed German straitjacket.

I would like to congratulate Mr Herman on his passionate speech and on his need to inform, prepare and reassure.
Is it not deplorable that in the State I belong to there is almost no attempt to inform?
They seem to have opted out of that obligation.
I would like to again repeat a point I have often made about public acceptability of this new currency.
I suggest and cling to the idea that one side of the note and coin should be similar to the existing issuing notes that are issued by banks.
That would go a long way to make the public feel that this was their currency.

In Hoppenstedt, which follows on Metten, he repeats many of the demands and expresses his regrets at some of the statements that are being made that States have to make savings because of Maastricht, that the European ideal has been undermined.
Mr Harrison I thought made his paper very clear and come to life when he emphasized the need for a policy mix between centralized monetary policy and decentralized economic and employment policies.
He mentions in his explanatory statement the rather bad example that followed German unification when a wrong mix of policies caused great hardship indeed.
Mr Harrison explained his report very clearly.

On the doomandgloom side of loss of jobs, I wish the people who talk about the loss of jobs would tell us how exactly the jobs are going to be lost.
They say this so often as if it is a fact.
The media in Britain say it all the time.
Will there not in fact be extra jobs?
One speaker talked about the need for training.
There will be the need for computer adjustment, certainly at the beginning there will be some extra jobs.
So would we please pin those critics down.

For exporters, and my country Scotland exports six times as much per head as most other countries, the markets will be more calculable and comparable the tourists will benefit and we will remove exchange costs of ECU  25  billion.