This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Amy Merx:

Ladies and gentlemen, it is perhaps a platitude to say that sustainable development is a challenge for all of us.
Environmental problems continue to get worse in developing and industrialised countries alike.

However, there has fortunately been much greater public awareness of the size of the problem and the need to act so that many countries have endeavoured to include environmental issues in their planning processes and decisiontaking.
The European Community, with the active participation of the European Parliament, has been behind the development of environmental policies both in the Community and supporting developing countries in their attempts to achieve sustainable development.
One example of this is the content of the Lom Convention concerning ACP countries, agreements with Latin American countries and with ASEAN.

Against this background the proposal for a regulation on environmental measures in developing countries is aimed at promoting yet more application of the principle of sustainable development and contributing to the integration of an environmental dimension into the process of the development in developing countries  bearing in mind, as always, the desire to improve the living conditions of the local population.

The measures are put into practice under the regulation of environmental measures in developing countries and clearly reflects a new Community and international context which stems from the United Nations Conference on the Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro, held in June  1992 .
Moreover, the measures which have been mentioned will complement other Community instruments as well as certain actions carried out by Member States or at international level, all aimed at making the most of cooperating in the field of the environment and acting as a catalyst, in particular through training programmes and strengthening capacity as well as pilot projects which are aimed at testing and promoting new approaches and innovative methods.

The experience we have gained will make it possible to improve overall assistance to development given by the Community and should lead to bigger scale funding through the main budget headings.
I am certain that the European Parliaments decision on the amendments which are being debated today will lead to an improvement of this regulation, a significant one, therefore contributing to the creation of an appropriate framework.

Mr President, I should like to take this opportunity to thank the European Parliament for the excellent work it has done and in particular its two rapporteurs, Mrs TaubiraDelannon, Mr Pimenta of the Committee on the Environment and Mr Brinkhorst, of the Committee on Budgets, whose reports reveal a very thorough knowledge of the question of environmental aid, as well as genuine personal commitment to the principle of sustainable development.

As for the amendments which have been tabled, I should like to say that  33  of the  49  amendments tabled, i.e.
approximately twothirds, can be given Commission support.
Amendments Nos  7 ,  19 ,  30 ,  41 ,  42 ,  44  and  48  will be partially withdrawn by the Commission.
In addition the Commission feels that Amendments Nos  1 ,  2 ,  4 ,  5 ,  6 ,  8 ,  9 ,  10 ,  11 ,  12 ,  13 ,  14 ,  15 ,  16 ,  17 ,  18 ,  21 ,  22 ,  23 ,  25 ,  26 ,  31 ,  32 ,  34 ,  37  and  43  are totally unacceptable.
The Commission cannot accept, in other words,  16  of the  49  amendments.
I refer to Amendment No  3   which may be a surprise, for strictly formal and technical reasons but not for political reasons (as this is noncompulsory expenditure the Commission and in particular this Commissioner will be very satisfied if Parliament manages to attain its objective of  50  million ECUs) as well as the other amendments which cannot be accepted by us, namely Amendments Nos  20 ,  24 ,  27 ,  28 ,  29 ,  33 ,  35 ,  36 ,  38 ,  39 ,  40 ,  45 ,  46 ,  47  and  49 .

I should like now to refer to the main aspects of the Commissions position in this respect.
In some cases, the Commissions reluctance is due merely to the drafting of the amendments.
As far as more substantial questions are concerned, some of the amendments, in particular Amendments Nos  20  and  27 , contain elements which from our point of view introduce a certain rigidity which would not be compatible with the aim of launching pilot activities in the field of the environment, in particular with concern for flexibility, something mentioned here by Mr Pimenta.

Other amendments, such as Amendments Nos  29 ,  41 ,  42  and  44  would give rise to new procedural problems, in particular concerning the requisites of the interinstitutional transmission of information which would not be viable and which might put at risk the proper management of the budgetary heading, given that human resources are very limited at the Commission, in particular in DG VIII.

Finally, some of the amendments tabled would bring about a change to the current committee procedures, Amendments Nos  38  to  40 , or else they would affect the very organisation of the Commission, as is the case of Amendment No  36 .

Obviously, we share a common aim: sustainable development in terms of the environment, as already stated and emphasised in Parliaments report.
The adoption of the Regulation on environmental measures in developing countries, with certain amendments as the European Parliaments request if we introduce those which the Commission can accept  will mean a significant advance in this direction.
I would like once again to thank the Members of this Parliament and, in particular, the rapporteurs for the work which they have done on this issue.