This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Helen Whittacker:

Mr President, I want to thank Mr van den Broek for the statement he made about Turkey in his usual measured tones.
However, I must say I am shocked at the statement from Mr Mitchell.

While he was speaking I did not know whether to laugh or cry.
I could not believe we are serious in this House about asking the Council to take on our foreign policy after hearing that statement about one of the countries with whom we are supposed to be dealing in foreign policy.
Mr Mitchell, I must say that I was concerned when you opened your statement by saying you understood we wanted Cyprus and Turkey to be taken together.
You have missed the point entirely.
Cyprus is an integral component of our political relationship with Turkey because Turkish forces are occupying the northern third of Cyprus.
They have  35 ,  000  soldiers in the north of Cyprus and it was the Turkish Foreign Minister in the Turkish Grand National Assembly who recently admitted that she had released  65  million Turkish lire to pay for the transporting to Cyprus of Turkish Grey Wolf fascists who  as we have seen on video  took part in the murder of the two Greek Cypriots in the buffer zone.
So, how can Cyprus not be considered as part of our relations with Turkey?
Of course it is an integral part!
We support the territorial sovereignty and integrity of the island of Cyprus, and Turkey is occupying onethird of it.
Cyprus, we must remember, is an applicant state for European Union accession which has had a positive avis from the Commission.
So, of course we want to consider what has happened in Cyprus as an integral part of our political relationship with Turkey.

I must say to you that we are not talking about Turkish Cypriots.
Fortyfive Turkish Cypriot organizations have condemned the murders which took place in the buffer zone in the summer.
These people were brought from Turkey specifically because not enough anger and hatred exists amongst Turkish Cypriots to do what the Grey Wolf went to Cyprus to do.
That has to be an integral part of our discussion this afternoon.

Before we passed the customs union in December of last year, there were many promises, as everyone in this House remembers.
Commitments were given and declarations made by representatives of the Turkish Government that they were going to improve democracy and human rights, that they were going to do something more positive about a solution to the Cyprus problem, that they were going to deal with their own peoples human rights.
And we were told it was all because they wanted to do it for the people of Turkey, not because the European Union was forcing it on them.
And we also heard they were going to deal with the Kurdish problem.
Clear promises made.

Well the Turks, the Kurds, the Cypriots have had nothing.
Nothing except oppression, intimidation and blatant denial of their human rights in the nine or ten months since that customs union was passed.
In fact, the relationship has not only not improved, it has got worse in all the areas I have just mentioned.
We have all received a constant stream of faxes, pamphlets, videos and eyewitness accounts of the everyday occurrences in Turkey and most recently in Cyprus.
What do we get from the Turkish Government and the states that support it?
Endless faxes bewailing the fact that Turkey is misunderstood and misrepresented.
And I must say that is rather what I thought I heard coming from the Council today.

I know from Turkish citizens, from Kurdish refugees and Turkish Cypriots  many thousands of whom live in my constituency in North London  that they do not understand why Turkish authorities treat them the way they do and why Turkey cannot see that recognizing minority rights, respecting the dignity of their own citizens and removing the occupation forces from Cyprus would be good for Turkey.
Not bad, but good!

The recitals of our resolution make clear the grim reading of what has happened over recent months.
Oppression, murder, intimidation are not European values.
Good intentions, expectations and promises have all been devalued by the actions of the Turkish authorities.
Conciliatory resolutions and double standards have no place in our relations with Turkey.
Words and promises must, frankly, be translated into political will and clear action.
My group will therefore be making every effort to freeze all financial commitments to Turkey.
We call on every political group in this House to support this approach and expect the Commission and the Council to respect our view and to act accordingly.
Only in this way will we get real change in the relationship with Turkey.

(Applause)