This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by James Merx:

.
Mr President, I think Mr Solana has already covered nearly everything, but let me add a few comments because the Commission is facing a very difficult period of profound and rapid change in the Middle East.
How we react and how the parties position themselves will have a determining influence on the prospects for moving towards what I hope will be a peaceful solution to the IsraeliPalestinian conflict.

We have congratulated acting Prime Minister Olmert on Kadimas election victory.
This undoubtedly represents some shift in Israeli politics and we await with interest the outcome of the coalition negotiations currently taking place.
That will take some time.

Let me underline that we, as the European Union, stand ready to work with the next Israeli Government to promote security and peace, but for both Israelis and Palestinians alike.
I am convinced that the majority of the population in both countries profoundly desires a peaceful and sustainable solution to the conflict.
As for the European Unions bilateral relationship with Israel, our sincere wish is to reinforce a strong, balanced relationship between us, reflected in our Association Agreement and in our ENP Action Plan.
We want to continue the progress that already has been made in implementing the action plan in areas such as human rights, the protection of minorities, research and development, as well as economic integration.

There has been much speculation about the impact these elections will have on the prospects for peace, which MrSolana has just tried to outline.
One might be tempted to believe that the election result broadly endorsed acting Prime Minister Olmerts avowed intention to proceed with the establishment of permanent borders for Israel by  2010 , following further disengagement from the occupied West Bank.
The question for us is how this will be done.
We strongly believe that Israels legitimate security concerns cannot be met and I would like to reiterate this on behalf of the Commission through unilateral action or decisions imposed by force.
Only a negotiated settlement will be sustainable.

The European Union would only support changes to the pre 1967  borders that were agreed by consensus between the parties.
We support a twostate solution leading to a final and comprehensive settlement of the conflict, with Israel and a Palestinian state living side by side within secure and mutually recognised borders.

I think it is important to say again and again that we should underline to our Israeli partners the importance of refraining from any action that may prejudice final status negotiations.
The Commission expects the next Israeli Government to reaffirm its commitment to a negotiated solution by full implementation of the Quartets roadmap, and to show this in deeds as well as words.
But as ever, we have to work with both sides.
Just as we must be clear with the new Israeli Government, we also have to be very firm with the new Palestinian Government.
There can be no compromise on the Quartets principles  Mr Solana has just outlined them, we have mentioned them in the Council statement, we have also mentioned them in the Quartet.

We expect the new Palestinian Government sworn in last week to commit to the principles of nonviolence, recognition of Israel and acceptance of previous agreements and obligations, including the roadmap, which then bind the Palestinian Authority to the fundamental principles of peace, democracy, respect for the rule of law and human rights.
Of course, we have heard quite a number of comments, some of which go further; but we have also seen some very slight signs of possible solutions, possible changes.

We are fully aware of the considerable economic and humanitarian needs of the Palestinians and indeed we do not want to let them down and of the need to break the vicious cycle of poverty and extremism.
That is why the Commission has already mobilised over EUR 120 million to help meet the basic needs of the Palestinians and to stabilise the finances of the caretaker government, which has just left office.
That is why we intend to continue to provide emergency humanitarian aid and assistance for basic human needs.

But, and I must repeat this because it will be the basis for what can be done, unless the new government complies with the Quartets conditions, there can be no business as usual.
Unless circumstances change, there will inevitably be an impact on assistance to the Palestinian Government, which the Commission is now reviewing in line with the Quartet statement.
In this regard, we are just preparing the next Council, where we will try to come up with lines of approach; we will not have full solutions, but we will try to move in the right direction.

So the onus is clearly on the Palestinian side, and on the new Israeli Government to act responsibly in fulfilling its obligations.
I firmly believe that both sides, especially the population, are tired of the conflict and desperate for peace, but it is up to their leaders to show responsibility and statesmanship as we move forward.
It is in their hands, and only in theirs, to put an end to the violence and despair that has blighted the lives of so many generations.
We are ready to work both within the European institutions and with the international community to make this possible, even in the most difficult circumstances.