This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Mary Green:

Member of the Commission.
 Madam President, firstly I would like to thank Mr Peterle for his excellent report, and also the resolution, which gives a very good analysis of the situation in Tajikistan and makes recommendations which I can support.

Since the EU Strategy for Central Asia was adopted in June  2007 , our relationships with all the countries of Central Asia have been deepening to our mutual benefit.
The rhythm of contacts between us has gathered pace, and there is now a shared understanding of the benefits of greater cooperation on security matters, border management and controls, education, governance and energy diversification.
The strategy is succeeding in forging a new kind of partnership with the five Central Asian republics.

Clearly, though, this overarching strategy is underpinned by individual and differentiated bilateral relations that reflect the varying aspirations and orientations of the countries concerned.
As you all know, our cooperation with Tajikistan is currently still governed by the trade and cooperation agreement concluded with the USSR in  1989  and endorsed by Tajikistan in  1994 .
This agreement does not fully reflect our ambitions under the Central Asia Strategy any more, nor does it serve to support the kind of relationship we now seek with Tajikistan.

Your assent to the new EUTajikistan Partnership and Cooperation Agreement, which is before you for debate today, would therefore represent a major step forward, allowing us to widen and deepen our cooperation with this country.

Todays Tajikistan is confronted, as has been said already, by major economic and social challenges.
It is important  and in Europeans own interests  that Tajikistan should succeed in tackling its difficulties.
This is a country which shares a nearly  1   500  km border with Afghanistan, and which lies close to the Swat Valley in Pakistan.
It is a territory vulnerable to spillover from these conflict areas and to infiltration by Islamic militants.

Tajikistan is also key to efforts to stem the flow of illegal drugs to Europe from Afghanistan.
Greater cooperation with the European Union can therefore play a part in helping to prevent the spread of instability.

A key element in Tajikistans vulnerabilities is its weak economy.
The poorest of the Central Asian republics has been badly hit by a substantial decrease in prices for aluminium and cotton due to the global downturn.
This, taken together with a  34  drop in remittances in the first half of  2009 , gives rise to concern that poverty levels may be rising, and that a precarious socioeconomic situation could provoke social unrest.

I believe that we are now on the right track with Tajikistan, supporting and encouraging indispensable reforms.
This has also been the focus of EU Special Representative Morels frequent visits and of my own visit in spring  2008 .
There is progress, but clearly more needs to be done.
The Government has made it clear that, in addition to greater trade and cooperation, it is willing to implement measures to improve social welfare, health, education, tackle corruption and improve human rights.

It is to be welcomed that President Rahmon has created the post of an ombudsman.
The ombudsman will be an important interlocutor for us in the next round of the EUTajikistan human rights dialogue that you mentioned, on  23  September.
Judiciary reform is still making slow progress, but we hope the recommendations of a recent human rights civil society seminar in Dushanbe will be taken into account by the government, particularly in reform of the legal profession and the new criminal procedure code in Tajikistan.

I am, of course, very well aware of your concerns on democracy and human rights in Tajikistan and I can therefore assure you that the Commission will take these concerns fully into account in our dialogues with this country.

As to the economic reforms, we see progress, for example, on the drafting of a cotton debt resolution mechanism, which hopefully will pave the way for wider agricultural reforms and the implementation of Freedom to Farm, crucial to tackling poverty in the country.

The European Parliaments assent to the PCA today will help us to continue to work with Tajikistan on a whole range of political and economic reforms, with a special focus on democracy and human rights, and also to ensure their thorough implementation.
The reform effort is already underpinned by a relatively large amount of bilateral assistance from the Commission.
Indeed, it is EUR  66  million for the period  2007  to  2010  which will even rise to EUR  70  million over the three years  2011  and  2013 .

Our aid will focus on sector support for social protection and health, public finance management reform and technical assistance for private sector development.
This process will be supported by our delegation in Dushanbe.
It is my intention that, before the end of this year, our regionalised office there should become a fullyfledged delegation to encourage the reform process and facilitate full implementation of the PCA.
In particular, I hope it will help us to maintain a thorough assessment of progress in the key areas I have mentioned which we will then measure against clear benchmarks.