This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Jennifer Whittacker:

Mr President, ours is a Union that has shown itself capable of extraordinary achievement when it combines vision with political will.
Sadly, it is also capable of causing grave disappointment when such qualities are absent.
Vision and political will have brought us to the threshold of launching the euro in  71  days time.
Internally and externally our economic relations are set to reach a new plane.
As a zone dedicated to stability we can exert a major positive influence on the global stage especially at this time of crisis.

My group believes that to do this the presidency must develop proposals to ensure that the European Central Bank, together with the Euro  11  Council, assisted by the Commission and accountable to this Parliament, fully develops the external representation of the euro.
Having worked so hard to create this powerful federal monetary capacity, we must not dissipate its international effect by an absence of vision and will.
In seeking to enhance the international role of the Central Bank my group also expects from the bank itself greater transparency in its policy formulation.
Without that we fear tensions could arise between the political and the monetary authorities, especially if the pace of economic progress slows down.
The ELDR also strongly urges those Member States which meet the criteria, namely Denmark, Sweden and the United Kingdom, to join the euro.

There are few areas where our policy pretensions and our actual effort stand in starker contrast than in the area of common foreign and security policy.
Once again the Kosovo crisis exposes the gap between aspiration and outcome.
Kosovo, despite recent progress, remains dangerously poised on the edge of a humanitarian disaster.
Its ceasefire is fragile, its political prospects uncertain.
The ELDR believes that the Union and the international community must maintain pressure on Mr Milosevic and must be prepared, if necessary, to back this with the credible certainty of military intervention.
The reasonable, but unfulfilled, expectations of many of our citizens that we should never again witness on European soil what we see in Kosovo undermines the credibility of the European Union.
My group believes that foreign policy is an area where decidedly we need more Europe, including a Europe with a security and defence capacity.

Enlargement challenges all of us to rediscover Europes essential task.
The great prize which it offers is political and security stability across the wider continent.
The ELDR welcomes the decision to open the Conference on Accession at ministerial level next month.
As we face a difficult debate on the future financing of the Union and Agenda  2000 , we must not lapse into an arid, sectional and narrow debate on budgetary policy, to the exclusion of the wider vision.
Again, as we await the ratification of Amsterdam, the same logic applies to institutional reform.
This now assumes a new urgency by going to the heart of the kind of Union we wish the applicant states to join.
For the ELDR this is a Union both wider and deeper with a political and social as well as an economic mission, but also with the institutional capability to see it through.

We welcome the green light given to Cyprus but it now requires a deeper EUled engagement to resolve that problem under the aegis of the United Nations.
This will require an evenhanded capacity to deal with all the regional political powers.
In this regard, we deplore the continued failure of the Council to deliver the financial protocol for Turkey, and ask today how the presidency proposes to unblock this unhappy situation.
The Vienna Summit will review the claims of other applicant states.
My group commends in particular the progress made by the Baltic States, in the economic field in Lithuania and in human rights in Latvia.
We note also with satisfaction the evolving situation in Slovakia and the renewed interest of Malta.

The prospect of deepening cooperation in the field of immigration and asylum policy is to be applauded.
Concerted action can have a positive effect, provided it is not founded on the values of the lowest common denominator nor on any retreat from the  1951  Geneva Conventions fundamental approach to asylumseeking as an individual human right.
We welcome the breakthrough in a statute to establish an international criminal court as a permanent structure to bring to justice those charged with crimes against humanity and urge that the preparatory work proceed.

Finally, we remain concerned about the fight against fraud in the Union, an issue with serious potential to undermine the institutions.
We believe it is important to maintain a sense of proportion, but also where there is wrongdoing to ensure full accountability which so far, regretfully, has either been unforthcoming or begrudging.
We need a more independent investigation process.
The state of the Union reflects that where we have the political vision and will, we succeed; where we lack those qualities, we do not.
Let us learn and apply that lesson.