This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Philip McNabb:

Mr President, ba mhaith liomsa i dtosac bire cad mile filte a chur roimh Taoiseach na hEireann, John Bruton, ar an ocid specialta seo, ar an cad turas d go dt Parlaimint na hEorpa.

I warmly welcome the Prime Minister of Ireland, Taoiseach John Bruton, on this, his first visit to the European Parliament.
I wish him every success in Irelands presidency of the European Union.

I am privileged to be present in this Chamber this morning to listen to the debate that has taken place so far.
I am proud of the fact that I am here and I very much appreciate the comments that have been made by people this morning.

The representatives of the  15  Member States are in the process of preparing draft changes to the European treaties which the Irish presidency hopes to have ready in time to present to the Dublin summit at the end of the year.
This is an ambitious timescale and I hope it can be adhered to.
But I believe it is far more important to find agreement on a series of initiatives for tackling the fundamental issues which are of primary concern to European citizens at the present time, even if this means postponing the presentation of a revised draft Treaty until next year.

Employment creation should be the number one priority of the intergovernmental conference.
In most of our countries unemployment rates continue at unacceptably high levels.
This autumn millions of school leavers and college graduates are entering the labour force and are actively seeking their first job.
Most of them will have serious difficulties in finding good quality employment just like their predecessors last year and, regrettably, the year before.

The IGC negotiations provide the Member States with an opportunity to refocus the Unions policies towards initiatives which will actively promote employment growth in each of our countries.
The President of the European Commission presented a series of proposals to the last European summit which had the potential to begin this process of redirecting the European Unions resources towards tackling unemployment.
Unfortunately European leaders showed little real enthusiasm and failed to make financial resources available for President Santers proposals, which would involve taking coordinated action at the European level.
I believe that this was a big mistake.

European countries have not been able to make serious inroads in their unemployment rates through unilateral initiatives in recent years.
At the same time, our main competitors on the world stage  the United States and the Far Eastern countries  have experienced strong growth in employment levels.
The European Union, the strongest trading bloc in the world, is being outperformed by both the US and the Far East.
The priority of European leaders must be to reverse this process and the  15  Member States can begin by agreeing to make employment creation the number one political priority of the European Union by incorporating this principle in any new Treaty which emerges from the IGC.

The second priority of the IGC should be measures to combat international drug trafficking which is responsible for much of the crime, now a feature of everyday life in our communities.
The drug trade is an international business and can only be properly tackled through effective international action.
The European Union is capable of assisting the national police and customs services in their efforts to combat this evil trade provided that the political will exists at national level to work together at European level in those areas where transnational cooperation can play a useful role.
If the European Union is to continue to enjoy the support of the majority of our citizens then it must show itself capable of contributing to finding solutions to the major problems confronting society.

At present, the common problems which virtually all the  15  Community countries share are high unemployment, illegal drug abuse and associated crime.
The challenges are great for the Irish presidency.
I wish them well.
I know that they have done tremendous groundwork in trying to ensure a successful presidency.
But they can only succeed if the other Member States are prepared to play their part as well.

(Applause )