This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Mary Corless:

.
Mr President, I wish to thank everyone for this very interesting debate.
The debate shows that this subject is a central issue for Europe and that it is a priority which the Commission believes can contribute towards improving the quality of life and preserving resources, especially for the benefit of future generations.
It goes towards improving the economic, social and environmental dimensions of our way of life.

The Commissions proposal has emphasised and given added relevance to the underpinning principles of our sustainable development policy.
Moreover, we have given ourselves clear objectives with correlative actions to reach these targets.
Concerning the need to be more ambitious, and the call for new targets, I need to underline that the essential thing is to produce results.
Investing in new targets may not be too difficult.
However, it is much harder to get people to make and accept the changes needed to achieve those targets.

We are meeting our existing targets, but the real challenge is to ensure that we do so.
We are therefore proposing a new approach aimed at making the difficult changes across society that are needed for sustainable development.
Having said that, I agree that setting new targets is also important.
However, any new targets need to be established through a proper process involving impact assessments and full stakeholder consultation, so that we have the acceptance and the commitment of those who need to work in order to achieve those targets.

I would also like to say something about the integrated approach frequently mentioned during the course of this debate.
Sustainable development is about a coherent approach to policymaking.
It requires an integrated approach, and in practice this 1 it states very clearly that the European Union will maintain its aid efforts at at least the same level as that of the ninth EDF. Therefore, in my view, PresidentinOffice, the ACP countries were misled into believing that they should feel secure about future funding under the tenth EDF. The Commissions assessment was that for the tenth EDF, EUR 24 . 948 billion was the appropriate sum. In December, however, the Council in Brussels agreed on EUR 22 . 682 billion on current prices for the 20082013 period. PresidentinOffice, I give this history because I think it is relevant to the position adopted by Parliaments Committee on Development, which is that the Development Committee requires reassurance and clarification before we agree to give our assent to the amended Cotonou agreement. Past agreements should dictate that both the Council and the Commission should understand that when the Development Committee takes a strong stance, as we have done on the DCCI, we in that committee will maintain a very strong position on our principles. Our principles centre around development, and if they are not addressed, then the Council should understand that we will not give our assent until that is clearly part of the way in which you are operating. One of our concerns relates to the fact that certain members of the Council say that we should accept that we deduct EUR 0 . 3 billion for the EUs 21 overseas countries and territories and that a further EUR 0 . 9 means the Lisbon Strategy working handinhand with the sustainable development strategy  two strategies working in parallel and in coordination towards the overarching objective of sustainable development.

The Commission disagrees with the idea of merging the two strategies, but agrees they should be used in parallel towards achieving the overall goal of sustainable development and that they should be complementary, both in scope and in terms of governance.
The Commission agrees that they can go handinhand, though this does not mean that they have to be integrated.
This can be achieved through sound and effective complementarity between the two, and that is what the Commissions communication seeks to achieve.

Concerning governance and monitoring, improving the governance of the European Unions sustainable development strategy is key to pushing forward progress.
That is why the proposal for the review of the strategy proposes a new improved governance process.
The Commission will report on progress every two years.
Let me assure you that in doing so it will draw on the full range of sustainable development indicators.

Eurostat has made good progress in developing indicators and this work will continue.
The aim is not to name and shame, but to assess where we are, how much more we need to do, and in which areas, in order to enable us to determine where we need to act and to allow clear communication to electors and stakeholders on where we need to change and on our approach to this.

Concerning the international dimension, sustainable development requires a global approach.
The European Union should maintain its position as a world leader in sustainable development through its action at home and by addressing the effect of this.
It must also engage with others to achieve the commitments made at Johannesburg and the Millennium Development Goals in order, as has been said, to allow developing economies to leapfrog, to avoid oldfashioned unsustainable patterns of development and to use clean and innovative technologies.
This is essential, for example, in the drive to limit climate change.
It is also why the global dimension is an integral part of the reviewed European Unions sustainable development strategy and why that strategy advocates an integrated approach to development and external policies.

In conclusion, the Commission hopes that the interaction between us in this area can continue and intensify in the months ahead.