This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Roger Whittacker:

.
Mr President, let me begin with , as we say in the Irish language  meaning a few words  on the title of this report.
Following the final vote in committee I was asked if I would be prepared to accept an amendment in plenary to modify the title of the report, which refers to fishermen, so as to implicitly recognise the important role played by women in that important sector.
It will not come as any surprise to you that I fully support the Migulez RamosKindermann amendment, which is totally consistent with the contents of the report and simply introduces the notion of gender equality in the title.

Like you, I learned on Monday that this amendment was inadmissible.
Like many of you I found that hard to believe.
However, you will be pleased to know that this evening the Conference of Presidents has approved the change in the title of my report.
From the outset, had I been allowed to draft this report in the Irish language, the problem would not have arisen because I would have used the word , which, unlike the English word fisherman, is genderneutral and embraces all those involved in the sector.

There is an urgent need to comprehensively address the multiple problems in the inshore fishing sector in the European Union.
This aspect of the fisheries sector is the poor relation that has been ignored for far too long.
The subject matter is vast and varied.
It concerns every single coastal Member State, in most instances in totally different ways.
That is one area of the fisheries sector where there is the odd reference, here and there, among the plethora of EU legislation, but no Community rules and regulations that specifically cater for the sector.
I believe that anomaly has to be corrected.

Inshore fishing essentially takes place in waters that come under exclusive national jurisdiction, and yet inshore fishermen, in many instances, are subjected to common fisheries policy regulations while reaping few of the benefits.
Inshore fishing is about the economic and social fabric of our small coastal communities.
It makes a vital contribution to local economies where, in many instances, there is precious little else in the way of work.
Inshore fishery activities essentially maintain the social fabric of those communities.
They are also essential for the preservation of cultural traditions and practices, which must be preserved.
And yet that sector has been ignored for far too long.

The future development of the inshore fisheries sector is dependent on social change.
It is dependent on the existence of appropriate representative bodies.
It is dependent on creating demand for improved added value produce through appropriate marketing structures.
It is dependent on resolving the economic aspects that influence operating costs.
Most importantly, it is dependent on the adoption of appropriate EU programmes specifically designed to help the sector.
The inshore fisheries sector is badly in need of development and modernisation.
That includes boat modernisation, notably where safety on board is concerned.

We must devise measures to minimise the effects of the increase of variable costs that results from high fuel prices.
If that means adapting boat engines so that they can run on a high percentage of alternative fuels such as bioethenol then we must take the necessary measures to adapt boat engines accordingly.

We must do all we can to attract young men and women to the sector in order to ensure its continuity.
I fear that will be impossible if we do not implement adequate vocational training systems geared towards concerned groups of the inshore fisheries population, not least the development of marketing skills.
I believe that we must develop new ways of commercialisation and fully integrate coastal fishermen into the marketing process.
We must also enhance cooperation and communication channels between organisation and stakeholders concerned.

My report is not  as some lobbyists would believe  an attack on recreational fishing in any one Member State.
It is about the specific social, economic and environmental problems of the entire small inshore fishing sector in all Member States of the European Union.
It is about promoting sustainable fishing.

This report is a contribution to resolving problems in the inshore fishing sector, not to creating new ones.
My approach is to try to find the appropriate solutions so that different economic interests are catered for in a mutually 60000 tonnes of catches per year. The protocol sets the financial contribution at EUR 36 . 1 million per year. A substantial part of this amount EUR 13 . 5 million is earmarked for support measures in view of the implementation of a sustainable and reasonable fisheries policy. The agreement has been concluded for a period of four years and contains a number of elements on which the partnership approach is based. They include, amongst other things, an exclusivity clause which prohibits the existence of private licences or other private arrangements outside the scope of the agreement; scientific cooperation in order to promote responsible fishing in Moroccan fishing zones; the possibility of a review of the fishing opportunities on the basis of scientific evidence and within the limits required by the sustainable management of Moroccos resources; vessel monitoring system requirements to reinforce checks on vessels operating in Moroccan fishing zones; and the social clause applicable to local seamen signed on by Community vessels. I am confident that this agreement will be implemented in the best possible way and in the spirit of partnership, dialogue and remarkable mutual respect that has characterised our relations with the Kingdom of Morocco since the beginning of the negotiations. At this point allow me to turn briefly to the amendments. Although the Commission can agree with the spirit of certain amendments, such as Amendments 2 , 5 , 7 , 10 and 13 , it does not consider them necessary. Similarly it does not consider Amendment 4 necessary, and it cannot accept Amendments 1 , 3 , 6 , 8 , 9 , 11 or 12 . On Amendments 14 to 18 acceptable way.
It would be incorrect for any interest group to read any other interpretation into the text.

Commissioner Borg, this report and this Parliament are calling on you to consider a new Community initiative for this important sector of activity.
The men and women involved in the inshore fisheries sector are calling on you to consider a new Community approach.
I believe that we have an obligation not to disappoint them.
Knowing your personal commitment to fisheries, I know that you will not disappoint them.