This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Annette Reid:

Mr President, it is often said that one of the first signs of madness is to start talking to yourself.
The attendance at this debate this evening shows how close to the edge some of us are in danger of becoming.
My feeling is only somewhat lightened by the very warm welcome I give to the SecretaryGeneral who is here at the debate and Commissioner Liikanen.

I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Viola on an excellent report.
It is excellent not only because it is good of itself but reflects what over recent years in the Committee on Budgets has become a seamless continuum of budgetary approach to our own Parliament.
The stringency and the strict adherence to the  20   ceiling of Category  5  appropriations is something which Mr Viola has welcomed and has enforced very strictly in the resolution he puts to us tonight.

My group would certainly endorse the three principles which reflect that continuum to which I referred: trying to get our estimates more and more based on the principles of zerobased budgeting, taking strong account when fixing the budget of the implementation of the appropriations that have been placed in previous budgets and an insistence that demands for new appropriations should be backed by appropriate supporting documentation.

Behind those principles there is also a very clear statement of priorities from Mr Viola.
One of those priorities is in relation to our property policy in Parliament, Although we have such a thin attendance, we should perhaps note that part of that property policy renders the tense of Mr Violas priorities in his explanatory memorandum slightly out of date.
The necessary signatures were undertaken yesterday for us to proceed to the purchase of the Leopold building complex.
That is extremely important as part of Parliaments approach to property policy.
We have exercised the purchase option before the date of  31  May and in so doing we have managed to get the beneficial input to Parliaments budget of the BEF  7 . 25  billion that has been negotiated between Parliament and the Kingdom of Belgium.

That ECU  180 m that the Belgians are giving by way of indemnifying the land and land development costs is a very important part of our building policy.
But added to Mr Violas report is Amendment No  2  from the Committee on Budgets, an amendment which I know Mr Viola supports.
It is an amendment which refers to the supplementary and amending budget No  1  of  1998 .
In that amendment we are seeking a letter of amendment from the Commission to supplementary and amending budget No  1  of  1998  so that we can continue with the policy of property acquisition.
It is the view of the Bureau and of the Committee on Budgets  and here they are absolutely as one  that in that supplementary and amending budget we should seek to purchase the Belliard I and II buildings so that they can be made available to the Committee of the Regions, to the Economic and Social Committee and to the common structure which, following the Amsterdam Treaty, will be dissolved but which will still have to produce common services to those two committees.
So, I strongly commend Amendment No  2 , which has already been carried by the Committee on Budgets, to the House.

The priorities are also stated as being the new staff management policy, a policy that the SecretaryGeneral has outlined very clearly both to Parliament and to the staff.
A third priority which I particularly welcome is that which we attach to the problems related to the introduction of the euro and the impact of the millennium bug.
I hope we can look to the administration to produce a report to Parliament as to what this priority means in practical terms, not necessarily waiting until next year.
These are serious problems for an information technology department which is already in many ways overstretched and are probably two of the most important demands that will made of it.

Finally, I should like to refer to Amendment No  1  which stands in the name of my group.
We have tabled this amendment in Mr Wynns name in order to leave the matter of staffing for the Ombudsman open until the first reading when one will have a clearer view of the overall need concerning staff.
We have done that, taking into account the views of the Committee on Petitions rapporteur for the  1999  budget, Barbara Schmidbauer.
I commend that amendment to the House as well.

On behalf of the Socialist members of the committee, I should like to say how much we identify with what Mr Viola has said about the sad death of VicePresident Lucas Pires.
He was proving to be an extremely good interlocutor between the Bureau and the Committee on Budgets.
We will certainly miss him in that role but, above all else, we will miss him as a good parliamentarian.