This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Frederic Corless:

Mr President, the Socialist Group welcomes and endorses the report and recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry into BSE.
This Parliament is today demonstrating that we take our role of monitoring and controlling the unelected institutions of the European Union very seriously.
This is the first time that the powers given to us in the Maastricht Treaty to investigate alleged contraventions or maladministration under the auspices of a committee of inquiry have been used.
My group wants to pay tribute to those colleagues who have been engaged in the committee of inquiry.
They have worked hard to identify and expose the tragic series of events which have devastated the beef industry across Europe, ruined the livelihoods of so many farmers, rural workers and people engaged in the ancillary food business and, worst of all, has led to debilitating illness and death for some of our fellow citizens and put so many others at risk.

I wish to make clear that for my group at all times the paramount concern has been the health of the people of the European Union.

The work of the committee of inquiry has demonstrated unequivocally that the blame for the BSE crisis lies fairly and squarely on the shoulders of the current British Government.

It was its singleminded, blind, ideological commitment to deregulation that led to a catalogue of disastrous decisions on which BSE evolved.

(Applause) My group has long believed that a simple commitment to deregulation is as outmoded and dangerous a concept as is a simple commitment to regulation.
What is needed is appropriate regulation: regulation to protect the health of the public and regulation to secure the safety of consumers is, in our view, necessary in a single market.

The BSE tragedy is a sad and dramatic example of what can happen when the health of the public and the safety of consumers is sacrificed on the altar of business expediency and profitenhancement.

(Applause) The British Government is to blame not just for the impact in Britain but because, by its mismanagement of the crisis, far from containing BSE in Britain it allowed its contaminated animal foodstuffs and infected calves to continue to enter the market and food chains in the rest of Europe.
This really was negligence of the worst sort.
I am confident that all decentthinking British people know that if such games had been played with their health and safety by any other government in the European Union they would be unforgiving.
The British tabloid media would do well to ponder on that fact before they indulge in any further xenophobia on this issue.

(Applause) The sight last night of the British Minister of Agriculture, Mr Douglas Hogg, being saved from a motion of no confidence in the House of Commons on his mishandling of the BSE crisis by a disreputable political fix with the Ulster Unionist Party really beggars belief!
If, as we are assured, beef from Northern Ireland and other specified herds in Britain has not been infected in the same way as other beef in Britain, why was it not acknowledged months ago, thereby saving Northern Irish farmers from the catastrophic financial consequences of recent months?
Why is it that the British Government only agrees to pursue socalled special measures when it faces a motion of no confidence in the House of Commons?
It is this kind of cynical, opportunist behaviour which destroys confidence in Britain and the rest of Europe and demonstrates that the British Government does not put health and consumer safety  let alone economic good sense  at the top of its agenda.

Mr Douglas Hogg, the hapless Agriculture Minister, refused to come and give evidence to our committee of inquiry, despite the fact that all the governments in the Union  including the British Government  had given an undertaking that they would support the work of Parliaments committee of inquiry.
Last night in the House of Commons Mr Hogg said that it would be an abnegation of British sovereignty for him to give evidence to us here.
He is one of those who argues that sovereignty in a democracy rests in its parliament.
I am one of those who believes that sovereignty resides in the hands of the people.

(Applause) However, the Council cannot hide from criticism in this affair.
It succumbed to pressure from the British Government; it watered down Commission proposals in the Agriculture Council and generally used the elite club of the Council to look after national interests rather than those of the people of the Union.
It reinforces the view of my group that the Council, when acting as a corporate body, hides behind the members individual democratic legitimacy and acts together in a secretive and unacceptable way.

I want to say now to the President of the Commission that this was a disaster waiting to happen.
The European Commission is culpable: it was not as if the Commission had not been warned that its structures and decisionmaking on food safety and public health were seriously flawed.
As long ago as  1989  in the Raftery report this Parliament stated:  If we want a genuine single market for food then we must establish a genuine, independent, strong and open regulatory body which will be seen to put the interests of consumers above those of producers, processors, distributors and the catering industry.

Yet again, in March  1992 , in my report on the reform of the Scientific Committee for Food this Parliament said:  The process of achieving a satisfactory scientific base for matters relating to food safety will be judged by Europes consumers according to whether it is sufficiently independent, transparent and effective.
In that report Parliament demanded a single unit in the European Commission to deal with food under the auspices of the consumer policy service, a common food policy, an independent scientific committee for food, proper consumer representation on that committee, transparency in the appointments made to the committee and proper consideration of the public interest in areas of food and consumer safety.
How much more could this Parliament have done to demonstrate that European decisionmaking in food safety was in a mess?
The litany of shambolic decisionmaking, lack of accountability and evasiveness shown by the Commission and its officials throughout the BSE saga has left the Commission weakened and vulnerable.
So, sadly, it has taken a crisis of this magnitude to create the conditions for change.

If the President of the Commission is to be believed, then change we shall have, and we welcome his statement.
But we are not content with promises.
That is why in our resolution to wind up this debate we commit ourselves to watching very carefully just what action the Commission takes to fulfil its promises made here today by its President.
If the reforms are not genuine, appropriate or fast enough to deal with the recommendations of the committee of inquiry, then my group will join with others in tabling a motion of censure on the Commission at an appropriate time in the months before or during November of this year.

Finally, my group will not support the motion of censure on the European Commission before this House today.
We do not consider it an effective political strategy to censure this Commission before it has had the opportunity to put its own house in order.
We are interested in a serious attempt to reform in the interests of public health.
Furthermore, we are convinced that a successful motion of censure at this stage would simply lead to an institutional crisis which would last for months and not do one single thing to strengthen public health or consumer protection at European level.

(Applause) There are those who consider that the publicity and chaos which would accompany the dismissal of the Commission would somehow cleanse the system.
My group does not believe that to be the case.
That the President of the Commission has come here today to set out before this Parliament a package of reforms which, if carried through, should go some way to really cleansing the system, is a tribute to those who have worked so hard in the committee of inquiry and a measure of the effect which this Parliament, if it takes its powers seriously, can achieve.

The committee of inquiry identified the faults and the reforms necessary to end those faults.
It is now our political responsibility in this House to see through those reforms to completion, and we intend to do so.

(Loud applause)