This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Michael Finlayson:

.
Mr President, Commissioner FerreroWaldner had very much hoped to be with you to discuss Belarus.
She has been intensely engaged in developing the Commissions activities on Belarus since we took office and I am convinced she will not miss the opportunity to discuss Belarus with the Russian Foreign Minister at their meeting that is being held in Vienna today.

On behalf of Commissioner FerreroWaldner and the Commission I am pleased to have this opportunity to exchange views with you on the situation in Belarus in the runup to the  19 March presidential election and on the Commissions work to support democratisation and to support civil society.

Let me start by saying a few words on the overall situation in Belarus.
The Commission is still deeply concerned about the absence of democracy and the lack of respect for human rights in Belarus.
This situation has further deteriorated as the election date is nearing and has resulted in a severe quashing of the voice of the opposition and the stifling of the independent press over the last few months.

The fact that an OSCE mission has been invited to observe the presidential election and that a number of contenders to President Lukashenko are likely to be allowed to contest the presidential race is a welcome move, but not sufficient evidence of a functioning democracy.
At this juncture, when the OSCE observers have started their work on the ground, it is important that the European Union and the Commission contribute to the smooth functioning of the mission.
The European Unions opinion and reaction will be based on this missions report.

In terms of the European Unions response, you are well aware of the unequivocal message that the European Union conveyed to Belarus and reiterated in the General Affairs and External Relations Council of  30 January: the European Union has stressed the importance it attaches to a democratic election process and has also clearly voiced its resolve to issue targeted sanctions in the event that these elections prove to be fraudulent.
To balance this message with a positive note, the European Union has repeated its offer to have closer relations with Belarus, provided that we see convincing progress towards democracy.

Let me now turn to the Commissions specific action and underline that the Commission has made good on its pledge to raise its role in Belarus.
Faced with growing repression and restrictions by the Government of Belarus on foreign assistance to nongovernmental bodies, the Commission has stepped up and speeded up such assistance to Belarus.
In  2005  alone, up to EUR 8 . 9 million have been dedicated to democracy and civil society projects.
Creative tools have been developed to overcome the hurdles to assistance delivery.
We have thus shifted part of our support to NGOs located outside Belarus.
The EUR 2 . 2 million we granted last December to the European Humanitarian University in exile, as well as our support to independent media, are vibrant examples of this novel approach.

In the field of independent media, I am delighted to say that the Commission has been at the forefront of donors action.
We have started with support to the radio broadcasting of daily news reports to Belarus in both Russian and Belarusian.
However, our main achievement is a EUR 2 million media project which is now being launched.
It includes radio and television broadcasting, internet activities, support to the Belarusian independent press, and the training of Belarusian journalists.
The project will allow the broadcasting of specific TV and radio programmes as from February, well ahead of the elections.
We believe this highquality project, which is supported by a Europewide team and sharply factors in Belarusian sensitivities  that is, no propaganda, straight news and sheer entertainment  will rightly reach out to large segments of the population.

In addition, the Commission has decided to open a delegation in Minsk but unfortunately the Belarusian authorities have not yet given their agreement.
Pending progress on this front, we will post a charg daffaires to Kiev who will travel frequently to Minsk.

Finally, last Monday the Commission brought together all international donors to Belarus in order to plan ahead.
This meeting has set in motion a common reflection on assistance beyond the election date.
This meeting was a signal that assistance and coordination will not dwindle after the election date.

In conclusion, let me emphasise that the democratic process in Belarus is likely to be a long process that will eventually succeed only with the support of the population.
This is why we must continue our efforts to raise awareness among the Belarusian population at large through support to civil society and facilitation of contacts between the people.
As Belarus stands at the crossroads, it is more crucial than ever that we all pool our efforts to implement a common strategy and be ready to react to developments in Belarus as they take place.
The Commission remains committed to doing its part.