This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Jennifer McNabb:

rapporteur.
 Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and all the colleagues who contributed to the elaboration of this important report which outlines the need for an EU strategy towards the South Caucasus region.
The South Caucasus is not only a region in the immediate neighbourhood of the Union  Romania and Bulgaria have a sea border with it  but also a region of great strategic importance for the Union in political, economic and security aspects.

Therefore, the European Unions main objective there should be to participate actively in its stabilisation and to encourage the development of Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia towards stability and democracy; to establish good neighbourly relations and integration in EU policies.
The European Parliament supports strongly all the initiatives which increase the EU presence in the region and, in particular, the most recent one, the Eastern Partnership.
It offers a valuable framework for increased regional cooperation, introduction of visafree travel to the Union and conclusion of comprehensive free trade agreements.
This is a twoway process that requires efforts and dedication from both sides; it is in the vital interests of the three countries to continue their efforts towards further democratisation.

Good governance, political pluralism, rule of law and respect for human rights are of paramount importance for determining their future relations with the Union.
Therefore, the European Union should continue providing financial and technical assistance to them in order to promote these principles within the framework of political conditionality.
The regions strategic geopolitical location, its increasing importance as an energy, transport and communication corridor connecting the Caspian Sea and Central Asia with Europe and the growing EU preoccupation with energy security suggest a more active participation in the energy projects of the region, including the completion of the Nabucco pipeline project.

However, these ambitious EU policies can hardly be achieved when there is a big shadow over the region: the unresolved conflicts in Georgia and NagornoKarabakh.
They are also a serious impediment to democratisation, political stability and social and economic development.
Unfortunately, it was owing to the  2008  war in Georgia that the Union realised that it needs to play a more active role in the region as far as conflict prevention and conflict management are concerned.
The deadlock situation due to these conflicts and the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty justify an increasing proactive EU policy.
This is particularly valid for the NagornoKarabakh conflict where the Union has been practically absent.
Simply stating support for the work of the Minsk Group at this stage is not enough if the EU takes seriously its new, more active role in foreign policy.

The Union is the international mediator that is accepted by both sides and whose presence does not raise controversies.
There is a need for the Union to lead the international efforts for rehabilitation and reconstruction in this conflict area by initiating reconciliation projects, peopletopeople programmes and contacts, and by sending a mission into the region once a political solution is found.

The conflicts in the region also demand a special effort with regard to the situation of the hundreds of thousands of displaced persons, which has serious humanitarian consequences.
The European Union has the means and experience to contribute to the creation of a more tolerant atmosphere in the South Caucasus.
It should also draw from its own historical experience and show to the people of the region that they can live together in peace and prosperity and can restore the good relations and trust which historically existed.
It is a main task for the Union to try to convince the leaders and the people  the hearts and minds of the people  in the region to support the peace initiatives, not the threats, not the tensions.
So there is a good future if we try to do it all together.