This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Helen Brown:

Mr President, Commissioner, the Annual Economic Report covers everything: monetary policy, budgetary policy, wages, the labour market and, just in case we might have forgotten it, Mr de Silguy finished off just now with the single currency, etc.
Over and above that, we have commentaries by Mr Cassidy and Mr Wolf.
Since we are talking about a gnosis, a dogma, commentaries are of course appropriate.
And we find that the central problem is unemployment, which is a major breakthrough.
All this, of course, is clearly perceived by our rapporteurs.
They even outline analyses of the causes, without going into too much detail.
A profound structural crisis, says Mr Wolf; excessive taxation, says Mr Cassidy.
But it is all fragmented, to such an extent that one says to oneself there are only two possible answers: either all these dazzling intellects are idiots, which I do not believe, I say at once, or there is something else.

Stupidity, first of all.
They told us that the single market would mean the creation of five million jobs.
Now the single market exists, and there are  18  million unemployed.
In the absence of stupidity, a causal relationship might have been established.
Well, no, there is no causal relationship.
Stupidity!
They tell us that privatization is a way of filling in the hole in public financing, yet it is privatization that is digging the hole:  6 ,  800  privatizations worldwide since  1980 .
Mr Cassidy, British Steel was privatized and threequarters of the jobs were lost; British Airways, on privatization, saw its workforce cut from  56 ,  000  to  19 ,  000 .
And who compensates the unemployed?
The State.
And how does it do that?
With taxes, which absorb all the income from privatization.
Instead of having a higher income, what we get is a deeper hole.

The stupidity, the idiocy of the convergence criteria, Mr de Silguy!
The French Government, trying to comply with Article  104 c and the  3   public deficit, increases taxes.
Taxes go up, consumption falls, sales fall, profits fall, the taxable base falls, income falls and the deficits get bigger.
Stupidity  and here perhaps Mr de Silguy may agree with me on the part of Mr Jupps Government and the other European governments.

So what is the answer?
Is it all really evidence of stupidity?
To those who know Mr Cassidy and Mr de Silguy, obviously not.
They are dazzling intellects.
So there must be something else, and to find the answer we need to take a look at the beneficiaries of these policies.
Who will benefit from the privatization of French Telecom, of Belgacom?
Not the States, which will lose the substantial dividends these companies were paying.
To the contrary, the international charges will change, they will become more profitable for the companies, involved as they are in a large global market.

Mr Cassidy, in paragraph  33  you tell us that we need to reduce the fiscal burden on labour.
Thats all very well, but how is it to be done?
It could be paid for, for example, by a tax on CO 2  , which will increase the costs of energy, something that is paid for by private individuals.
Naturally, the companies will find that their social charges fall in the meantime.
And I do not stress the reduction of the rate of taxation on companies, which cannot have been very beneficial to private individuals, or even on pension funds, as mentioned in paragraph  34  of Mr Cassidys report.
The sickness benefit will be broken up and pensions will be broken up and no one will remember that when a Maxwell or a Pan Am or a TWA vanishes from the scene it is the State that pays instead of the companies, which for their part have creamed off the profits in the meanwhile.

Clearly, this is not all a matter of chance.
In any case, Mr Cassidy, without making the point explicitly, you say on page  12 , and I quote,  unemployment: the European Unions priority .
You didnt say the fight against unemployment , you said unemployment: the European Unions priority .
This clearly shows that unemployment is created voluntarily, because it allows a profit to be made out of immigration, which causes wages to fall, out of the opening of frontiers, which causes the cost of labour to fall, out of policies of deregulation, liberalization and privatization, which open up the promised land of the dismantling of the electricity, air transport and pensions industries, and out of the policy of taxation of capital, which has been unbelievable over these past ten years.

Mr Cassidy, Commissioner, you have taken us back to the nineteenth century.
You have taken us back to the days before the Welfare State.
Its a fantastic trick.
From that standpoint, you have all my admiration.
You have fully achieved the task you were given of robbing the poor to give to the rich.