This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Amy Corless:

Mr President, it is with great pleasure that on behalf of my group I welcome to Parliament the first Chancellor of Austria to hold the presidency of the European Council.
I thank him very much for being here to take part in our annual debate on the state of the Union and listen to our views about the future of Europe.

It is, in my view, a sign of the times that our heads of state and government are meeting in informal session to discuss the direction in which Europe is travelling.
It is a sign of confidence  indeed of the growing confidence and maturity of our Union  that the meeting this coming weekend will focus on giving European citizens a sense of ownership of this Union, to make them feel that the partnership in which we are engaged is of value to them.
And of course it is.

We have spoken many times, but over the last year in particular, about the need to give Europe back to its people, to create a peoples Europe.
Fine words, but just what do they mean?
I believe that a peoples Europe is about peace, prosperity and security.
If Prtschach can breathe new life into the vision of a united Europe by pointing the way forward on these three concepts  peace, prosperity and security  then it will be setting a new and relevant agenda for the coming years.

This weekend we can continue the very excellent start that was made in Amsterdam last year.
Amsterdam gave some signals of just what a peoples Europe might be about, what it might look like, because we agreed a job creation role for the Union, endorsed the social dimension, created a broad antidiscrimination competence, strengthened environmental, consumer and health opportunities and insisted on stronger cooperation between enforcement officers on terrorism and drugs.
These are the issues that affect peoples lives.
These are the issues we pursued in Amsterdam.
Now, in an increasingly unstable world, economically and politically, it is time to build on the strengths of Europe; to look at those areas where people increasingly expect us to be active and creative.
For instance, the need, as has been much mentioned here already, for a dynamic common foreign and security policy, has never been so evident.
The European Unions  15  economies, on the verge of the most exciting and innovative monetary venture of modern times  the launch of the euro  are calling out for greater economic coordination to manage global economic turbulence and to stimulate internal growth.

Europe is not an end in itself.
Europe is a tool to deal with the problems which confront us across the continent and globally.
In that sense as well the moment is right.
Over recent weeks and months we have seen a desperate need for political leadership in the world.
With economic turbulence continuing from the Far East to Russia, with increasing pressure on Latin American economies and currencies we have witnessed a paucity of political leadership.
Japanese politics has been reeling from crisis to crisis.
President Yeltsin has struggled to keep a government  any government  in the Kremlin and we have all been compelled to watch the personal and institutional trauma of the American presidency.
It is Europe which is promoting innovation in the global economic and monetary structures.
It is the euro which is creating a significantly new element in Europes favour in that economic turbulence.
And it is European leaders who are articulating the need for new globalised, appropriate regulation and reformed global structures to give shape, coherence and rationality in the global market.

But this is also a moment when confidence worldwide is at a low ebb and when many are confused about where and in which direction the global market is taking them.
It is a moment when we have the opportunity to demonstrate that we in Europe can provide leadership in an unstable world.
The questions which are crying out to be answered are the same throughout the Member States and the same issues that are demanding answers in the European discussions as well: how to create jobs in a global market; how to reform the social welfare systems of Europe without denying help and support to those who truly need it; how to save the environment for the future; how to deal with the scourges of racism, drugs and terrorism; how to train and retrain individuals to cope with the challenge of information technology; in essence, how to create a dynamic, prosperous economy with social justice.

I believe in a strong European Union.
I believe that Europes institutions need to be effective and efficient.
We must continue to change, refine and democratise our institutions if we want to establish within the body politic and amongst the Unions officials a culture of openness and a willingness to conform to the challenges of modern democracy.
But amongst the people in our Member States, the institutional debate is long past its sellby date.
It is and remains important to us, as it should be.
We operate within the institutions.
We are bound by their rules of engagement and we are often trapped by a culture of political administrative involvement which is dated and often found wanting.

So inevitably and quite rightly we will pursue changes.
That is common to all parliaments, particularly to new ones, such as we are.
But it is time that we made clear that Europe must not be about building institutions.
It must be about securing a wider, more stable, peaceful European continent for us all; not building institutions  building a Community of shared values; not building institutions  building a future for our young.

We are often teased and criticised that we have no big idea.
Europe is a big idea whose genesis and motivation is no less powerful today than it was at its inception.
As John Hume said yesterday in his moving statement to this House, Europe is the greatest model of conflict resolution this world has ever seen.
But today the Union has even greater vocation.
Those who give more than a cursory glance at the global environment in which we are working cannot fail to see the significance of the European Union: its ability to act together for its  370  million citizens; the potential power of its economy with a single currency; its opportunity to offer a coherent chance to its young through coordinated action for employment for the future; its traditions of tolerance and openness and its sophisticated social model.
If all of this can be harnessed with a greater and expanded model of cooperation in foreign and security affairs so that the Bosnias and Kosovos of this world can be prevented  not just stopped once they have begun, but prevented  then we are truly offering something new for the future.