This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Annette Brown:

Member of the Commission.
 Madam President, I fully agree that we have to look at this question in a wider context, in this case, in the context of the financial and economic crisis.
In the last two years, we saw that this was a test of competition policies no matter whether it concerned the financial sector, the automotive sector or, in this case, the housing sector, and it was also a test of our social policies, whether it concerned children or the elderly or the homeless.

In this set of questions which I received, these two issues  competition and social policies  overlap.
That is why it is even more complex than it would be outside the context of the crisis.

The crisis demonstrated an enormous market failure, not only in the financial sector but also in the housing sector, and it became very clear that market forces alone cannot resolve these problems, not only for the extremely poor, but also for larger groups of society.
That is why I would be strictly against any principle that would restrict the concept of social housing to only the poorest groups in society, especially with respect to the diversity of European countries and the principle of subsidiarity.
I would certainly insist on leaving the definitions in this context to the Member States themselves as I have said already in my introductory speech.

Going back to the Dutch case, which has been the focus of the discussion, I would like to repeat that the Commission is not imposing the criteria that have been set in the Dutch context to any other country.
In full respect of subsidiarity, it is for the Member States to decide the actual conditionality of social housing.

This is confirmed by the decision concerning the Dutch State aid scheme, and I would like to recall that the limits set by the Dutch authorities  which apply only in the Netherlands  cover  43  of the Dutch population, which is certainly well beyond the poorest groups.
The Dutch decision, moreover, has confirmed that the social mix and social cohesion are valid public policy objectives for which State aid may be justified, and not only for those living in extreme poverty or at risk of poverty.

I think the social distress in this over the last few years has destabilised society on a much wider scale, and that is why we have to be sensitive to this.
I would also need to add that the Commission only verifies aid given to housing companies.
Any subsidy given directly to citizens is not subject to State aid rules.

The discussion also touched upon a wider context, which is social services of general interest.
That is why I need to address this as well and emphasise that beyond housing, other services of general interest and, in particular, other social services play a preventive and socially cohesive role which is targeted at the whole population independently of wealth or income.
The Commission made this point clear in its  2007  communication when it highlighted the objectives and principles of organisation of social services.

The Commission is committed to promoting the quality of social services.
For instance, we support the development of a quality framework for social services of general interest within the Social Protection Committee.

A few final thoughts in closing my answer.
Since some of the questions concerned a longer timescale, spanning into the next financial perspective, I would agree that, in a variety of contexts, housing will be affected; indeed, refurbishment in the context of energy efficiency  which, from our point of view, falls under the category of green jobs  will certainly be an area where we will have activity, without, of course, trying to have a common European housing policy.

There will also be other issues like housing for the most vulnerable groups of society such as the Roma, where there is already a beginning, and I think there will be continued support from the Structural Funds to address housing issues, in this particular case, for the extremely vulnerable marginalised groups in a variety of Member States.
This also highlights the importance of having a very diversified view because countries are different in terms of their social needs, and certain decisions and solutions that are applied in highincome countries certainly do not necessarily have to be followed  and definitely not imposed  in other Member States.