This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Lynne MacLeod:

Mr President, I wish to begin by expressing my personal thanks to President Hnsch, Prime Minister Bruton and President Santer for their excellent contributions this morning.
And it is crucial that we begin by saying this: I very much regret that so few of the Members of this House were here to listen to the excellent speeches we have just heard.

There can be nothing else going on in this building that is more important than this debate, and that message will certainly be transmitted to my Group at its meeting this evening.

In our debate last year we looked forward to the opening of the Intergovernmental Conference.
We were then aware that, if we were to prepare this European Union to meet the historic challenge of enlargement to Eastern and Central Europe, the Baltic, Cyprus and Malta, it was incumbent on us all to secure an effective, democratic, open European Union which, more than anything, reconnected with its people, reconnected the vision, the hope and the aspirations which inspired the postSecond World War generation to embrace European integration and reconnected that vision with the people.

Today, six months after the opening of the IGC, there is a general mood of disillusion and depression.
If we allowed ourselves the selfindulgence we would have to admit that there is something to be depressed about.
The Union is dismally uninspiring.
Indeed, to the overwhelming number of people it is completely irrelevant.
Yet it should not be so!
With the global trading environment changing so rapidly that even the most poorly trained and inadequately educated can sense in their gut that life is no longer even as it was ten years ago; with the information society introducing anarchic communication potential, which all can see will accelerate the pace and nature of change  given ten or fifteen years to refine and to focus and to develop; with the world moving into regional groupings to facilitate and master the changes, at the same time that the pool of regional and local identities, languages and cultures is asserting itself again, surely our European Union  which is at the fulcrum of these changes, able to operate in recognition and celebration of the diversity of our continent  must have something more inspirational to offer our young people in particular.
But, no!
The last year has been characterized by stagnation and paralysis: stagnation in the fight to create jobs in Europe; stagnation in the IGC process for all to see; paralysis in our desire to defend the common policies which make up the European social model; paralysis in our ability to generate a common will on issues challenging peace and stability on our continent.

I know that I will be accused of undue pessimism and a confrontational approach but can someone explain to me why, when we have a multibillion ecu surplus on our agricultural budget, we cannot find the political will simply to transfer a proportion of that money to secure funding for tens of thousands of our young people by investing in the funding for the fourth research programme, our investment in the jobs of the future?
Why we cannot find the will to transfer a proportion of that money to secure peace on our continent by rebuilding civil society in former Yugoslavia?
That is not European money being spent simply on people and places far away, rather it is money spent to make absolutely sure that our children will not be engaged in a long and bloody conflict for the next generation on European soil.

Somebody tell me why the European Council cannot carry out its side of the bargain on the transEuropean networks and find the will to transfer a proportion of that money as it promised.
Somebody tell me why this Parliament, which has done all in its power to support the transEuropean network project is now being told that because the governments of the Union want the transEuropean networks, but want their money as well, we here must slash the budget for education and training, job creation and consumer protection.
Why some governments in the Council deny the funds for the poverty programme, help for the elderly and the socially excluded.
Somebody, please tell me how it is that we can still talk about the European social model when we are being driven further down the road to the Americanization of European life, a model which I must tell you is rejected by European people who do not want to be a lowwage, insecure, illtrained workforce.

We are underestimating the determination and will of European citizens.
What is missing in our political analysis and thinking for the future is the recognition of the importance of our culture to our people.
Our aim is surely to preserve and protect that which is precious and unique in each country of the Union, that which gives the people of that country or region their sense of wellbeing, their security within their own cultural and historical identity and, whilst preserving that confidence for all our people, we seek to pool what is common to all of us in the search for the answers to the mounting crises of our age.
Frankly, there is not much time left for us to make this Union a source of pride to its people, through adding value to their cultural and historical life.

Please, Mr Bruton, at the special meeting which you are organizing in Dublin, try to raise the ambitions of the prime ministers.
Ireland has, as you said, a unique opportunity at a watershed moment for the European Union and Ireland has a proud record during its presidencies of the European Union.
You asked us, Prime Minister, to help you to find the answers in securing the support of Europes people.
Let us have a strong message to Europes people; let us hear that the leaders of our countries are at least united in insisting that there will be an employment chapter in the new Treaty with real bite.
Let us hear that there will be a commitment not just to economic and monetary union but to people  their economic future and their wellbeing  and let us hear, as well, that the Union can be united in securing a commitment to fight discrimination against our ethnic minority population.
Let us give to all those living in our countries trust and confidence in tolerance as our first virtue, to give nonEuropean citizens and residents confidence in our humanity.
This is even more important, Prime Minister, given the shameful remarks made recently by Mr Le Pen.
We here abhor and reject his philosophy and we are demeaned, frankly, by his presence in this House.

(Applause) Let us hear that we will preserve the European commitment to a universal public service for all its people and let us hear that our culture, history and tradition, all the diverse strengths and beauties of our continent, are what makes us tick, not just a slavelike devotion to some economic or academic model of society.
Let us hear that the European social model is alive and kicking, is secure in the hands of our government leaders and will be the building block on which everything else is built.

In conclusion, after a year dominated by grubby stories of deception and dishonesty over mad cows, the trauma of the abuse of our most vulnerable young children, the continuing exclusion of  18  million people and the total stalling of any effort to improve the ecology crisis as if somehow with economic problems the environment has ceased to be of concern  after all this, it really is time to demonstrate the positive political will to move forward.
We, on this side of the House, have that will but know it can only be achieved through a rededication to collective and cooperative responsibility which underpins our Europe.

(Applause)