This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Jennifer Whittacker:

Mr President, Council meetings in the last few months have probably had the most important agendas for several years, dealing with three areas in fisheries management: first, the size of the EU fishing fleet under the MAGP; the new regulations for technical measures proposed by the Commission; and satellite transponders, an important aspect of the overall control programme.
In addition, the annual TACs were decided.
These meetings afforded a rare opportunity to take decisive action to rectify the dangerous situation of the EU fisheries.
Unfortunately the Council did not have the courage to make the difficult decisions which need to be made.

On the MAGP, everybody admits that the EU fishing fleets are too large.
Even the fishing industry itself says that there is overcapacity and that reductions are necessary.
However, the Council continues to resist the idea.
It currently seems to be attempting to turn MAGP from a programme to reduce fishing fleet capacity by decommissioning, scrapping etc., into a programme to limit the fishing efforts which the fleets are allowed to make.
This amounts to a fundamental reorientation of the goal of the programme and one which, in our opinion, is bound to fail.
There are several reasons why this failure is inevitable.
I will mention just two.

First, fishing vessels are built to fish, so fishing vessel owners are not going to be happy with their vessels sitting idle and losing money.
They will exert pressure on politicians to allow them to go fishing to try and make some money.
The extent of the pressure which can be put on politicians is known to us all and can be seen in the results of the annual Council meeting where TACs are decided.
So even if the Council was able, in its wisdom, to accept a programme to limit fishing effort, that would not end the story, for there would be everincreasing demands from the industry to allow more fishing.

Secondly, such a programme would be extraordinarily difficult to monitor or control.
Last year I was rapporteur for the report on the CFP monitoring system.
You will recall that fisheries control is the responsibility of the Member States, not the Commission.
The basic conclusion of the review conducted by the Commission was that the control programmes in the Member States were totally inadequate and in dire need of improvement.
No country had a programme which was sufficient in all areas.
It was interesting that the Commission recorded that several countries had failed to meet targets in the statistics on the size and capacity of the national fleets.
Instances were found where vessels were larger in reality than was actually indicated in the national registry of vessels.

So I would pose the question: how can we be confident that a programme to control the fishing effort of a large and powerful fleet would be successful?
We have not even managed to control the amount of fish which is landed, and that is a far simpler task.

One agreement has been reached on how much capacity is to be reduced.
Another aspect which is important is what capacity is to eliminated.
We must ensure that the vessels which remain in the fleets are those which are the least destructive to the marine environment.
This would have longterm beneficial consequences for both the fish stocks and for the fishermen.

A final matter which gets very little attention is what is done with the vessels.
EU fleets are already active in many oceans around the world and often cause considerable damage.
Considering the size of the other fleets in the world, there is not a great deal of room in other areas to which these vessels can go without causing problems.
The decommissioning schemes put in place must ensure that the MAGP does not simply transfer the problem to other parts of the world.
Europe must not be allowed to export its excess capacity.

In short, the Greens consider that a rigorous programme of fleet reduction accompanied by compensation for the fishermen thus affected is a fundamental prerequisite for resolving the current crisis.
The technical measures are all about trying to increase the selectivity of EU fishing practices.
This involves not only the juveniles of commercially important, targeted species but also other species that are not wanted by fishermen.
The fact that the FAO estimates that, on a global basis, one tonne of fish is thrown away for every three tonnes that is kept shows that this is a very serious problem.
The Commission has proposed a number of progressive changes in the current technical measures including square mesh panel, increase in mesh size, grates or grids to filter out the shrimp catches and others.
Once again, the Council is shillyshallying, working on a compromise version which will weaken the Commission proposal.

The fishing industry is being held accountable for the damage it wreaks on the marine community.
The proposals of the Commission are a significant step along the path towards a more responsible approach to fishing activities.
The Council seems bent, unfortunately, on ignoring wider public opinion in Europe and around the world, which is in favour of a more careful and precautionary approach to fishing, and is choosing to bow to the pressure of the fishing industry.