This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Claire MacLeod:

Mr President, this budget debate is the last one of this particular House before the elections next year and, indeed, when we come back to discuss the year  2000 , we should have an institutional agreement and a financial perspective which will be different from those we have today.

Before coming to my remarks on institutional budgets and the Commission budget, there are two general remarks I wish to make about the  1999  budget as a whole.
Firstly, I believe it is a sign of Parliaments sense of responsibility that it has left large margins untouched in the budget.
It is true that the overall strategy will be earmarking some of the funds in the margin in the reserve but we have made it very clear from our Groups point of view that these are not funds which will be committed  they are for strengthening Parliaments negotiating position for the financial perspective and the interinstitutional agreement.

We have a budget which is very stringent: it has shown how, over a sevenyear period, the figures that one is now voting on are very different from the financial perspective which we negotiated back in  1992 .
But these are unexpected developments: the CAP is well under the guidelines, as the rapporteur for the Commission budget has said, and much of the structural funds has remained unspent and uncommitted and handed back to taxpayers.

My second remark on the budget as a whole is that there is a real danger that we are moving into a period where the annual budget has no relevance whatsoever; where we have multiannual programmes which have decided the figures year by year, and a financial perspective which has allocated funds well into the future.
This is why when it comes to the negotiations on the future financial perspective, we want to make it absolutely clear that there will be sufficient flexibility, both in terms of the allocation of funds and in the structure of a financial perspective.
Otherwise we would be better going back into  203  and into the annual budget process where Parliament can have its real relevance.
But we must ensure that the annual budget is a place where we can discuss the figures rather than the present state of affairs.
I have had the feeling we have been talking about small amounts rather than some of the bigger issues which we are concerned with in the European Union.
Above all, we must avoid what I would call a kind of Sovietstyle rigidity in the way in which we set our budgets in the European Union in the  21 st century.

Let me move now to comments on other institutions.
I wish to congratulate our rapporteur, Mr Viola.
It is not an easy task to be rapporteur on the budget when there are really sensitive issues around that the House has to decide on.
But we in the EPP Group have not taken the line that we have to be absolutely rigid: where there is a justifiable case for extra staff, as the Court of Justice convinced us, then we have voted for those credits for  10  LA staff.
We also want to make sure that next year, when Parliament comes back after the European elections, that we can have a properly organised system for information technology, which is why we will be voting to clear all the credits out of reserve on information technology.

The most sensitive issue is quite clearly travel expenses, where we, as a group, have held together so far  and I expect that this will be the position on Thursday  for the overall Committee on Budgets compromise which links the question of travel costs taken at actual cost for Members allowances to the overall question of the Statute.
The vast majority of us believe that the most sensible thing is to come to an overall agreement on this, linked to our signature on the interinstitutional agreement at the end of March next year, so that then we can have a really strong and satisfactory means by which Members know what their rights and duties are and we will then know how we will be paying for our travel costs for the next Parliament.
Because it is illusionary to think that simply having a transitional decision  which the Bureau decided last night  is something we can live with for a future Parliament and settle all our problems.
We would like the Statute to be resolved and decided as soon as it can be on the basis of the Rothley report.

I move to the Commission budget.
I congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Dhrkop Dhrkop, on behalf of my Group.
I know only too well it is not easy either to navigate that kind of thing through the House.

There are three points here which stand out from our particular perspective.
Firstly, there are still some minor points which we wish to see instated, which have not been instated by the Committee on Budgets, relating to such issues as information outlets  I can assure Ms Morgan we will be voting in favour of that on Thursday (B 30301 ) , on Alzheimers, tourism, and tropical forests: these are issues which we want to see part of the budget that is adopted.
Because we know that the provisions on the legal basis have not eased our decisions this year in terms of how to decide on what are pilot projects and what are preparatory actions.
Presumably this will get easier now as we move into a different process.
It is always the first year which is the most difficult.

Secondly, on the external budget, last night in the Committee on Budgets we voted on a proposal by my Group for Russia.
We want to ensure that credits have been set aside so that we can respond to the request for humanitarian aid which Mr Primakov has made to the European Union institutions.
We do not know what it is going to be, but these credits should be set aside for the budgetary authority to be able to take specific action, should the need arise.
That is the purpose of that amendment.

Lastly, I come to ECHO.
This is a question which has caused some real concern, but this arose because we in the EPP Group decided that it was intolerable that we, as parliamentarians, should have to go to look for a particular report in the Commission offices and that we could not actually view that particular document as parliamentarians on Parliaments premises.
So that was the major condition which we attached to unblocking the funds on humanitarian aid.
Whether wilfully or not, this has been blown out of some proportion by many in this House because they did not vote in favour of it.
It always said in the amendment that this was up to the second reading.
It was a tactical reserve.
Now Mr Santer  and I thank the President of the Commission very much for the letter he has sent  has fulfilled those two conditions, and tonight I will propose to my Group that we release the reserve on this line for the vote on Thursday.
In my view, this has been a significant victory for Parliament in terms of making the Commission more open and accountable.
This is the only way we can really make our citizens confident in the financial process in the future.