This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Alastair MacLeod:

.
Mr President, we are here to discuss the Barcelona Process and the preparations for the next meeting of the EuroMediterranean Parliamentary Assembly.

Let me just say a few words about the recent events in the Palestinian territories, because today the time was so short during the speeches on the Gymnich and there were only two Commissioners.
I ceded my place to Commissioner Rehn for the Western Balkans debate and now, if you permit me, I shall say a few words on yesterdays events.
It is not only topical but also goes to the heart of the EuroMediterranean partnership, to our shared objective for a region of peace, stability, prosperity and opportunity.
I fail to see how any of the actions yesterday in any way contributed to those objectives.

The Israeli attack on the prison in Jericho and the Israelis public treatment of prison guards and inmates is unacceptable and should be condemned.
I also deplore the violence, the kidnappings and the attacks on the Commission offices and other offices of the Member States in Gaza and the West Bank.

The first victims of this breakdown of law and order are the Palestinian people themselves.
In the current circumstances, with key political deadlines ahead in both Israel and the Palestinian territories, it is more important than ever that both parties show restraint and responsibility.
Attacks, such as the ones that took place yesterday, and provocative statements do nothing to improve prospects, and the Palestinian Authority must put an end to violence and insecurity.
Yesterday evening, I had a good discussion  as you, Mr President, no doubt did  with President Abbas before he returned to deal with the mounting violence and confrontation.
He is doing one of the most difficult jobs in the world just now, which was not made any easier by yesterdays events.
How he manages to compose a new Palestinian Authority Government will affect the prospects for peace in the Middle East and will also have repercussions for us all.

The European Union is a reliable partner of the Palestinian people.
No donor has done more to help them.
I told President Abbas once again that we want to continue our support for a better, peaceful and prosperous future, but that we stand firm on our principles, leaving the door open to positive developments.
All future assistance to a new Palestinian Authority Government will be reviewed in relation to its position on the key principles of an end to violence, recognition of Israel and compliance with the existing agreements, including the Roadmap.
Those with whom President Abbas negotiates must know and understand that their decisions on their issues will have important repercussions.

Let me now say a few words about the EuroMed Partnership.
The Barcelona Summit last November achieved notable results for the future.
The fiveyear work programme agreed at the summit and the Code of Conduct on counterterrorism constitute a very ambitious agenda which will render the partnership more tangible, more politically relevant and more operational.

To follow up on the summit, we must now ensure constructive and effective contributions by all partners to attain the commonly agreed objectives on political and economic reform, growth and job creation, human rights and gender issues, education and management of migration, regional stability and the fight against terrorism.

The Commission has already launched work on the implementation of that fiveyear programme.
Initiatives have been taken with the current and the incoming Council Presidencies, as well as with Mediterranean partners, to ensure the success of this common endeavour.
We have reserved appropriate funding for assistance and support, provided through MEDA and the future European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument, including a substantial facility to encourage progress on governance reform that we call a governance facility.

As of this year, several new and innovative activities will be launched.
Preparations are well under way to organise the first EuroMed ministerial meeting on gender issues at the end of the year.

Two subregional conferences, one in the Maghreb and one in the Mashreq, will pave the way for government and civil society representatives to examine the importance of gender equality for economic and social development and propose practical measures to improve womens access to jobs and public life.

At the Barcelona Summit, EuroMed partners highlighted the importance of migration, social integration, justice and security as issues of common interest in the partnership, which should be addressed through a balanced and comprehensive approach.
Work has begun on preparing a ministerial meeting to tackle all issues from illegal migration to trafficking in human beings and people smuggling.

This regional initiative is complemented by our bilateral programmes aimed at strengthening institutional capacities, managing legal migration, improving border controls, fighting illegal immigration and people trafficking.

Mr Winkler has already mentioned the Trade Ministerial Meeting, which will be attended by Commissioner Mandelson and will advance the objective of a European free trade area.

We also hope to see similar progress on SouthSouth trade  the Agadir process.
The socalled cartoon crisis has highlighted the dangers of leaving prejudice, misinformation and misunderstanding to fester.
We regret the offence caused by those cartoons to Muslims across the world, but we also strongly condemned all violent acts and threats against individuals and property of the European Union and other countries.
Support for intercultural dialogue at all levels is important.
I am glad that in Salzburg this has been very strongly recommended.
We are convinced that the Barcelona Process has a framework for it and that the architecture is already there: there is the Anna Lindh Foundation and  35  other structures within an entire network.

We must reach out to civil society and the media, and all the media seminars that are being planned by the Austrian Presidency are very welcome.

In this context, I am very happy with the initiative to exchange views on this subject during the next EuroMed Parliamentary Assembly.
From there, I would go to the Arab League summit in Khartoum, because it is highly important that we now use every opportunity to really talk to our Arab friends and colleagues.

At this critical juncture, our message has to be clear: it is through a vigorous but also peaceful dialogue of opinions, with full respect for freedom of expression, that understanding can be deepened and respect can be built.
Indeed, that is the essence of the Barcelona Process.
Therefore, what we want to do is give more hope to progress.
Together, we want to realise the objectives of security, stability and prosperity.