This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Sebastian Jones:

Mr PresidentinOffice, it is the most tremendous pleasure for me to welcome you to the European Parliament today.
As a British Labour MEP, I take delight in being able to welcome the first Labour Government Minister in this Chamber for over two decades.

(Applause from the left) As leader of the Socialist Group in this House, I know that Socialists, Social Democrats  and some other Members of this House as well  were mightily relieved to see the back of the previous government which was most hostile to, most dishonest about and most obstructive in the European Union.

(Applause from the left) On  4  May, just three days after the British general election, the Observer newspaper carried the headline Goodbye Xenophobia .
The first positive message of the new government and from the PresidentinOffice in particular was towards the European Union.
The Foreign Secretary is very welcome here.
On  16  December  1992  at the conclusion of the last British Presidency my colleague and predecessor JeanPierre Cot addressed the then British Prime Minister and said:  At the outset of the British Presidency, I looked forward confident in my belief that those traditional British characteristics of fair play and efficiency would make it a success .
He concluded:  the British Presidency has behaved less like an honest broker and more like a fervent partisan .
Today I make a plea to the Foreign Secretary to ensure that this British Presidency will demonstrate that fair play and efficiency and restore British selfrespect and dignity in this House and in Europe.

But, more, we hope that this presidency, in seeking to carry out its priorities will demonstrate the drive, the vigour, imagination, flair and vision which has marked the first eight months of the governments stewardship of Britain.
It will be no surprise to the Foreign Secretary or to this House that my group endorses the major policy priorities which he has outlined to us today as his plan of work for the next six months.
Colleagues in my group will deal with that agenda  jobs, drugs, the environment, the foreign affairs agenda, in detail during the course of the debate today.

I want to raise just two issues in particular.
Firstly, enlargement of the Union to Cyprus and central and eastern Europe.
We welcome the PresidentinOffices commitment to open the process of enlargement in an inclusive and transparent way in March in London.
I know that the British government believes in making hard choices.
I want to ask the PresidentinOffice to take up the hard option which in our view accompanies the opening conference and that is to begin the process of discussing the complex issue which was not concluded at Amsterdam and which the Luxembourg summit at least had the grace to admit must be tackled.
It is not popular or easy to raise what is often regarded as the navelgazing issues of institutional reform.
But the simple truth is that the European Union will not work without greater qualified majority voting...

...let alone the reweighting of votes, numbers of Commissioners and so on.

Similarly, the word is out that the reforms of both the common agricultural policy and the structural funds which you mentioned will simply not even begin until the end of this year when the German election is over.
Nobody expects that these questions can be resolved in the next six months but please do not pretend that they just do not exist.

The second issue I want to raise is a the decision which must be taken on the euro during the first few days of May of this year.
This Parliament, as the PresidentinOffice said, has a unique and very particular responsibility.
It is the only Parliament in Europe which can have a direct relationship with the European Central Bank and which already has a direct relationship with Ecofin.
This Parliament can exercise democratic control over the euro and the institutions which determine its success or otherwise.

On this side of the House we are determined that role will be carried out in a very hardnosed way.
We call on the Council to look seriously at the proposals coming forward from Parliament to give the euro democratic legitimacy.
The attitude of the British Presidency in supporting the right of this Parliament to give its view on the recommendations of Ecofin on which countries should be in the first wave of EMU has given a clear message of democratic commitment for which we are very grateful.
I hope now that the PresidentinOffice will press his colleagues to support a democratic euro.

This presidency occurs at a crucial time  I have said it if the Foreign Secretary did not.
It carries with it the hopes of those concerned for the future of Europe and, in particular, for our young people.
We wish it well.

(Applause)