This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Frederic Reid:

Madam President, on behalf of the Socialist Group I want to welcome the Committee of Inquirys report and in particular to extend our congratulations to the rapporteur, Mr KellettBowman, for the excellent work he has done in producing the report before us today, and to Mr Tomlinson for the excellent way in which he has managed the Committee of Inquiry as its chair and for the excellent basis it gives us for the committees of inquiry in the future.

I should also congratulate the Commissioners, who, at the opening of this discussion, were certainly here in considerable numbers.
I understand why one or two have drifted away, but I congratulate them on being here.
Frankly, I have to say that I am disappointed that so very few Members of our House have stayed for what is a hugely important debate.
Bearing in mind the turnout from the Commission, that needs to be said.

(Applause ) I look around the room and I recognize many Members from the Budget and Budget Control Committees who, of course, are committed to this cause of fighting fraud in the European Union; but we are all clear that fraud in the European Union and the reaction to it amongst the people of the Union are a major political issue for every Member of this House, not just for the Budget and Budget Control Members.
I can only hope that those Members who are not here are sitting in their rooms reading the four volumes of the Committee of Inquirys report: I will be charitable.
But I do think it ill behoves us to go home and rail about fraud in the European Union and talk about what we are doing about it, when we have this excellent Committee of Inquirys report and very few people are here to debate it.

This report demonstrates the European Parliament at its best.
That is another reason why I regret that so few people are here.
Here we have the European Parliament acting  for the first time really, because this was the first committee of inquiry established under the Maastricht Treaty  and the way in which it has performed, the way in which it has been conducted, the evidence that it has taken from people from the Commission, from Member States and from individuals, is a model of the way in which we would want committees of inquiry to work in the future.
It has been deadly serious, combative certainly, and it has come forward with a range of proposals which do this House very great justice.

We should also be clear that what the Committee of Inquiry has exposed is the fact that the workings of the Single Market, the flagship policy of the European Union in recent years, have been exploited.
This report is all about the Single Market, and most of our citizens would have assumed that the Single Market was actually working in a way that demonstrated that none of this could happen.
There is clear evidence in this report of the failure of the Single Market at this moment, and of the need to tighten up.
But let us remember that this was the first committee of inquiry set up by this House, and that when, at the Conference of Presidents under the chairmanship of Klaus Hnsch when he was still President of this House, we were looking to first use our new rights under the Maastricht Treaty, we wanted to be sure that the first committee of inquiry set up was one that dealt with an issue where we could have a real impact on public consciousness.
Indeed Mr Martens initially came up with an idea that we should deal with fraud in the Union, and my group came up with the specific proposal about the area of fraud we should deal with.
That has allowed us to demonstrate the truly effective nature of this House in its role to monitor, to examine, to investigate and to expose.

If there is any message that the media of the European Union ought to take away from this, it is that the European Parliament is exposing this fraud perpetrated against the institutions of the Union in terms of its budget and, of course, against the Member States of the European Union; that we are actually saying now to the governments and the parliaments of the Member States of the Union:  Please now get on and do what you are supposed to do and follow up this report .
I hope the media will remember that and realize that it is not the European Parliament which is hiding or dissembling about fraud; we are exposing it and offering that analysis to the rest of the Union.

I think it is fair to say that over the time that the Committee of Inquiry sat, the mood certainly changed from one, not of hostility but of a certain degree of scepticism, to one of great support and help from the Commission and from other bodies.

The key recommendations  and I will close on this  in the Committee of Inquirys report are really about the nuts, the bolts, the gears and the wheels of the Single Market, and we have got to take note of them and make it work.

(Applause )