This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Marc Finlayson:

Mr President, in supporting todays proposals in favour of small business I want to bring to this Chamber the clear experience of small business in my own constituency.
I speak as an honorary member of the South Essex Chamber of Commerce having close contacts and met in recent weeks with the Thurrock Industrial Association and the Basildon Business Association and just last Friday participated with representatives of over one hundred local companies at the launch of Business Link Essex.
All these organizations are committed to nurturing small and mediumsized companies.
The question is what can the European Union do to help us.

Firstly, I should like to give the strongest support to action to halt the scourge of late payments which threaten so many of our small businesses.
I would highlight a small printing company in Tilbury in Thurrock, S  S Printing, which finds by and large that it is working for other companies which are larger and more secure.
Yet nonpayment of invoices presents a real problem to their manager, David Stear.
He puts it plainly when he says that when these companies who are in debt to him pay their salaries they are doing so with his money.
In another arena that would be called fraud and it is shameful that the UK has the worst record of late payments in Europe at a dismal average of  23  days.
That is why our initiative to end this scourge of late payments is absolutely right.

Secondly, I wish to support the continuation of our European programme for intrasubsidy loans to small companies but to call for clear improvements in the way that these loans are administered.
Eleven small companies have benefited or become eligible to benefit from South Essex since  1994 .
Too many of them have told me of the difficulties associated with this scheme.
Let me make it clear that bank loans are absolutely crucial to this sector of business and European support with minimum bureaucracy and targeted at job creation is a very effective way of offering support.

Precision Components in Benfleet, a small engineering company, started by the owners father from a garage and still present on the same site were enabled to invest in new equipment for the first time in four years.
Before the recession in the  1980 s they invested in new capital every year and our help has returned them to the path of growth and new competitiveness.
Just this week Thames Estuary Plastics of Rayleigh has had its interest subsidy from Europe confirmed to support twelve new jobs as part of a  470 ,  000  project.
In addition, we will enthusiastically try to implement the new loan guarantee scheme, ELISE, in my area.

However, Terry Pearce from Precision Components remains sceptical about Europes involvement.
While Thames Estuary Plastics have had to wait nearly two years for confirmation of their support, another company, Camtac of South Woodham Ferrers, have waited so long that their success in the meantime means they now no longer have need for the loan.
A success story for them but hardly for Europe!
Another company, Beaver  84  Ltd, of Basildon was not even told by its intermediary that its application for a financial lease was even on the list for a European subsidy.
Europes role was hidden from them.

The solution to all of this is to ensure that sufficient funds are given to meet the demands and to avoid lengthy delays on the waiting lists.
In Britain as a whole  700  companies have been helped but  650  more applied and were eligible.
Intermediaries should be much clearer about the role of European support and all Member States should operate a reserve list system to help eligible companies who were not first in the queue.

Finally, on the European information centres, we receive no service in Essex.
There is a huge gap to the north of London, in Essex, Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire.
Essex has  66 ,  000  overseas and UK businesses providing  590 ,  000  jobs.
Commissioner Orejas answer to my parliamentary question on  13  June when he said that services are provided from Norwich or should be sublet from Norwich is wholly unacceptable.
Let the Essex County Council Library Service be a European information centre.
No new money is needed.
We simply want the title so that we can get access to the information, to the publications and to the network of other centres.
It is not working at the moment in Essex.
Look at our case once again.