This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Helen White:

Mr President, I find myself in sympathy with most of the objectives that have been expressed in the course of a very full debate in which all those taking part spoke with vigour and obvious commitment.

If I can straight away dispose of the one speech with which I did not agree.
I could not find myself in agreement with what Mr Anthony said about refugee return in the former Yugoslavia.
Let us not forget the basis on which those refugees were created.
They were created by vile, violent and ethnicallybased confrontation.
It is a very important as we construct a new Europe that we construct a new Europe on principle of ethnic pluralism and tolerance of minorities; that is after all one of the standards we apply to countries seeking to be members of the Union and it should also be a standard we apply to countries that seek to be in trade agreements with us.

I said earlier this afternoon how much we welcome President Nelson Mandela coming to Cardiff.
We cannot celebrate the abolition of apartheid in Africa, only to tolerate it being created at home in a corner of Europe.

Otherwise, I find myself in much agreement with many of the objectives stated here.
The one point that I did feel running through the discussion is that there was sometimes a failure to grasp that it was not enough to state the aspiration in order to deliver the outcome.
I was particularly impressed at Mr Carnero Gonzlez listed as failures of the common foreign and security policy: Albania, Algeria, Kosovo, Western Sahara, the Middle East peace process.

There are immense problems in the world and there are some severe cases of conflict.
I believe we are setting ourselves a totally impossible task which is bound to leave us all with a sense of frustration if we make the test of a common foreign and security policy whether it has resolved all conflicts within the world.

First of all, that is unattainable.
Secondly, I would also counsel colleagues against a modern form of imperialism by thinking that the solutions that we ourselves decide are the right solutions in Europe are necessarily acceptable to those who are involved in conflict in other continents of the world.
We have an obligation to offer our best offices to assist them in finding a solution and to take measures against those who willfully and irresponsibly prolong conflict or prolong violence.
Within those two objectives of seeking to achieve a resolution of conflict and to deter people from the use of violence as a means of resolving conflict, we should ourselves find a common position among our countries.
That will not always produce the solution but we certainly have an obligation to find that common position.

If you look back over the events of recent months, on a number of these conflict issues, Europe has indeed adopted a common position, has sought to seek to achieve solutions.
It has not always succeeded and in those cases where we have success, like Bosnia, the process of clawing back from the bitter hatreds of recent years is inevitably going to take time if not a generation to complete.
I would ask the Members of the European Parliament, whilst they are perfectly entitled to demand a common concern and common action from the Council, to recognize that will not necessarily produce outcomes and will certainly not produce outcomes that will be acceptable in the immediate short term.

Finally, can I pick up one or two colleagues who have referred to the mechanisms provided for by the Amsterdam Treaty to improve the common foreign and security policy.
It is indeed the case that when we have the planning and early warning unit and when we have the High Representative in place, we will have a better mechanism for giving expression to the common positions we adopt.
They will, of course, not have any legal basis until the Amsterdam Treaty is ratified.
That is up to the Member States.
Colleagues within the European Parliament can go back to Member States to make sure that they are achieving all possible speed in making sure that they do ratify.
I am pleased to report to you that we have now almost completed the parliamentary processes in Britain for ratification of the Amsterdam Treaty.
If other Parliaments achieve the same timescale, we can achieve ratification within the next few months and that will give a legal basis to these steps forward in common foreign and security policy.
In the meantime, we have used our Presidency to take forward the preparation so that from the moment we have the legal basis to proceed we can proceed quickly with the changes in personnel, the arrangements, the provision for resources in place so that within the legal basis we can act immediately.

I end with one plea to all Members, I have listened with great interest to a number of speeches this afternoon demanding a common foreign and security policy and condemning the Council for lack of political will in achieving it.
I am bound to say that in each of the countries from which I heard speakers speak eloquently and passionately this afternoon, I could recite lists of cases in the past five months when their Member State has held out against the others in achieving a common foreign and security policy; particularly in the case of Madam Lalumire who made the most rigorous demands for a common foreign and security policy.

Building such a common position is not easy, it requires compromise all round.
We will never get a common foreign and security policy by one nation demanding that the rest of Europe adopt their common foreign and security policy.
It will require tradeoffs between us and if we are going to achieve it our best prospect of achieving it is if we go into it openly recognizing that all countries are going to have to work for the common good and at times are going to have to abandon their own national positions in order to do so.

Sometimes, and my own country reserves that right, we will have to say no we cannot abandon this particular national perspective because it is too important.
We have to retain that right to defend a national interest.
That makes it difficult, of course, to oppose a common foreign and security policy but I would submit to Parliament that it is also an essential part of making sure that we get the popular agreement and the popular support for the legitimacy of the European Union.