This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by James Brown:

rapporteur.
 Mr President, this is a particularly important report.
The Commission, including the Commissioner himself, and I have worked very closely on it.
This report highlights the complexity of establishing a forward programme for trade relations between the EU and the ACP, two very different and largely unequal groups which share a common goal to strengthen trade as a means of real development.
Idealistic as this may sound, I have received a great deal of support from both the Commission and the representatives of the ACP regions and, despite the many concerns expressed by NGOs and political groups, they and I, and I am sure the Commission, remain optimistic.

EPAs have moved very slowly because of the conflicting ideas on a number of issues including regional integration, identification of sensitive products and preparing concrete and detailed proposals for EPArelated support.
The ACP has been asked to do a great deal and too often the institutional infrastructure and lack of capacity has raised questions as to whether these proposals will contribute to their development in a manner that they want.

The January  2008  deadline is obviously what makes this year so crucial for EPAs.
Time is running out.
Negotiators must press on to reach a mutually beneficial settlement on EPAs that will help ACP countries develop and support international trade relations.
In the event that some regions need more time, I believe it is incumbent on both parties to seek to ensure that ACP exports to the EU should not be harmed.
This should be the objective, not discussing the feasibility of another WTO waiver, although I appreciate that the Commission is continuing to focus on reaching the deadlines.
However, I am anxious to know what provisions have been outlined for these regions which find themselves without an agreement.

My report makes a number of recommendations: simplified, liberalised and more flexible rules of origin, full dutyfree, quotafree market access for the ACP, workable safeguards, dispute settlement and monitoring mechanisms with transparent provisions and a real power to act in the event of changes caused by EPAs having a harmful effect on sectors of ACP economies.
These are the positive aspects and need to be correctly framed in negotiations.
We need to know how these mechanisms will work and to build trust and ensure that Europe will be as keen to help implement these mechanisms as the ACP countries.

We have recognised that, if EPAs are to be successfully concluded, there must be more ACP engagement than has been demonstrated throughout these negotiations.
Only a true partnership will ensure these agreements are beneficial to all parties.
The official EPA review due to be completed last December failed to provide a full and comprehensive report of the status of negotiations.
This is far from encouraging and I am curious as to what precedence this sets in the actual signing of the agreements.

It is clear that additional resources will be needed to cope with the effects of change ushered in by EPAs.
The scalingup of trade facilitation, technical assistance and support to help ACP producers meet EU standards must be sufficiently extensive to offset losses from tariff revenues and help ACP countries take advantage of market access.
In the first instance this requires greater efforts to ensure that funds already promised are spent in a timely and effective manner.
The EU must be accountable for all of its development assistance and, together with the ACP, must set clear goals that boost ACP competitiveness and growth.

EPAs have an essential role to play as instruments for development and, appropriately designed, they represent an opportunity to revitalise ACPEU trading relations, promote economic diversification and regional integration, and reduce poverty in ACP countries.

I mentioned in my speech that the EU must be accountable.
This is taxpayers money, and democratic accountability is of concern to all of us and is essential.
We have failed in many respects to help ACP countries; now I believe we have a real chance to do something that will really make a mark, provided we have the goodwill of all of them.

Unfortunately I have to leave now to go back for personal reasons.
I have worked very closely with the Commission and the Commissioner.
I think we have had a very good understanding and I would like to take this opportunity to thank them.
I hope that we can continue to work in that manner.