This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Frederic Jones:

Mr President, first of all, just to clarify: we are tonight debating safety standards for cabin crew and not air traffic controllers.
At least I hope so.
I know it is very late but I believe that is the directive we are discussing, otherwise I am in the wrong room.
I think we have a problem with interpretation, with all due respect to Mr Grosch.

I wish to thank him for his efforts in endeavouring to steer this report through Parliament and doing such a comprehensive job, and also to congratulate the Commission on having the foresight to bring this forward, particularly in the light of what we have just been saying about liberalization and the very important comments the Commissioner made about the need to underpin liberalization with a very strong social framework.
This is clear evidence that is actually happening, and this is a measure which commands the full support of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.

One point we have to stress is that we need to get over to the Council and, indeed, the wider community why this measure is so important.
One thing we have to make very clear is that, contrary to accepted beliefs, if you are involved in an air crash the likelihood is that you will not actually die.
Indeed, many aircraft accidents are survivable.
Around  75   of aircraft are involved in accidents during approach, landing or takeoff.
Research indicates that around  90   of all aircraft accidents could be survivable.
It is estimated that of the  1   500  people on average who die each year, some  300  a year, on average, could survive if evacuation measures within aircraft were improved.
I am confident that if we had better, faster and more effective evacuation, we could save lives  as many as  300  a year.

How do we do that?
There are a number of methods by which we can improve evacuation measures.
Firstly by the behaviour and crowdcontrol skills of cabin crew during emergency evacuations, and, secondly, by passengers knowledge of safety procedures and their motivation to get acquainted with them.
We all know from our experience in flying that noone takes any notice whatsoever of cabin crew when they are giving us the safety demonstrations and yet all the evidence suggests that information they are conveying to us could make the difference between life or death.
There are a number of reasons why evacuation is a key issue, and training is clearly a means by which we can enable and motivate the cabin crew to provide effective information to the passengers, before, during and after an incident.
That is why we believe this measure is so important.

The large majority of air crashes are survivable technically, and effective evacuation is so important.
Current regulations, for example, specify that an aircraft must be evacuated within  90  seconds with just half the exits open.
In  1994  research was carried out by both the CAA and the FAA which clearly indicated that the difference between getting out of the aircraft or not depended on assertive, highlytrained and highlyeffective cabin crew.
Tonight we should reflect on that.
It underpins the work of Mr Grosch and the proposal from the Commission.
The results show clearly that trained cabin crew make the difference.
That is the reason why we are very pleased to support this proposal for a directive on the training of cabin crew.

We have a number of concerns which we have identified via our amendments.
We think that in an incident you cannot differentiate between some cabin crew who may have safety training and others who do not.
All the crew should have the skills necessary to ensure that the plane, for example, is evacuated as quickly and effectively as possible.
That is why we have tabled Amendments Nos  9 ,  10 ,  11 ,  12 ,  14 ,  15 ,  16  and  17 , to ensure this measure applies to all the cabin crew.
If you speak to the cabin crew themselves, they do not want to create a situation where, possibly, some airline operators could differentiate between cabin crew and create a twotier system.

In Amendment No  13  we propose annual medical checks for cabin crew.
Again we think this is perfectly reasonable, when your life is effectively in not just the pilots hands but also in the hands of the cabin crews.
An annual medical check is the best way forward.
Leaving it just to the wording regular is not sufficient.

Finally, Amendment No  18  talks about annual training for cabin crews, including things like firefighting and the use of life rafts.
Again, it is extraordinary that a basic requirement like using firefighting equipment or life rafts is not checked annually.
That is why we are tabling this amendment, to ensure that training is given on an annual basis.

In conclusion, as travel demand increases, the number of aircraft increase, the number of risks increase, it is vital that safety standards throughout the Community are harmonized.
We believe this directive will ensure that and could make the difference between life and death itself.