This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Katarina Cameron:

Mr President, if anyone ever doubted that a small Member State of the European Union could perform a worldclass act then the Irish presidency has dispelled that doubt.
The Irish Government has performed what many people thought was an impossible task: they have produced a draft treaty in time for the Dublin II summit meeting this weekend.
Not only have they produced a draft paper, but it is lucid, persuasive and has a clear eye to making the case for closer European integration in a language and style which is accessible to and has resonance for the peoples of the European Union.
My group congratulates the Irish presidency on its very significant efforts.

This Parliament must now spend some time examining and analysing the  140  pages which make up the draft proposals, which will be formally presented to our government leaders on Friday, taking account, of course, of the outcome of that meeting.
I want it to be clear that any response which my group makes today must be seen as an immediate political response to the document.
I make it without prejudice to the detailed critique which will follow in the coming weeks.

Having welcomed the publication of the draft, can I urge subsequent presidencies to continue the most appealing form in which it is presented?
The Irish presidency has clearly learned the lessons of the dbacle of the public debate on the Maastricht Treaty.
With each suggested change in the Treaty there is a justification written by way of introduction and, above all, written in plain, easytounderstand language.
Gone is the stiff, turgid, legalistic approach of Maastricht.
Socialists welcome and applaud this, which will inevitably help the public understanding of just why changes are required and suggested.

My group wants, as well, to welcome the positive elements in the draft proposal.
We specifically draw attention to the inclusion of an employment chapter which aims to give the same political priority to the issue of job creation in the European Treaty, as the Maastricht Treaty gave to EMU and a single currency.
Of course we want to ensure that this competence has real bite and is not mere pious words.
Frankly we have had enough of them already.
But we are encouraged that the concept of the separate chapter on employment is clearly established and enjoying overwhelming majority support.

We particularly welcome the allembracing definition of nondiscrimination.
This is as we want it and is a strong statement of intention that this European Union will not suffer or tolerate those who purvey the politics of hate.
This Parliament has led the campaign against the resurgence of racism and antisemitism.
It would be a most powerful first positive message for reform of the Treaty if the Dublin II summit were to reach immediate agreement on this new competence, designed to demonstrate that our Europe respects citizens or residents whether white or black, Christian, Jew or Muslim.
We have learnt the lessons of our history and we believe all decentthinking people in Europe share that desire for tolerance with us.

Mr PresidentinOffice, I am sure you would expect us, in this House, to express a balanced view of the draft proposals, and I will not disappoint you.
In expressing considerable criticism of what is not in the draft, I want to make clear that this is not to denigrate the considerable feat of actually producing it.
It is rather in sadness as we recognize that, despite the energy which has gone into it, the draft treaty in omission demonstrates the difficulties with which the Union is faced.

First and foremost, my group sincerely regrets that there is no mention of institutional reforms in any depth, so necessary to make the Union work more effectively and efficiently.
What is it that has determined the need for this IGC?
It is not some overweening urge to put each country through a further tortuous debate on just where Europe is going, not a slavish devotion to an unthinking dash to Eurofederalism, as Eurosceptics would have us believe, but rather, the absolute imperative to enlarge the Union to bring in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, Cyprus and ultimately the Baltic States.
It is nothing short of the fundamental bedrock underlying the lives of millions of our people; that is, peace and stability on our continent.
If we are serious then we have to ensure that our Union is ready for enlargement.
That means making sure that the institutional issues which govern decisionmaking in the Union are streamlined and made ready for a bigger Union in the relatively near future.

That the Council is unable to demonstrate any serious degree of consensus on this issue nine months after the opening of the IGC is a cause of great concern.

On issues of practical importance to our citizens there is scant mention: the environment, public services, the real development of European citizenship and greater openness and transparency.
We suspect that the ambiguity which currently blights the second and third pillars in terms of democratic accountability will be increased rather than lessened by proposals in the draft paper.
Not only is the right of democratic control, which is exercised by elected parliaments throughout the world, not further extended in the draft, but the logic of the text would appear to weaken Parliaments budgetary rights on the second pillar on a common foreign and security policy and, by the proposals for a hybrid arrangement on the third pillar on home and justice affairs, confuses rather than clarifies and simplifies decisionmaking processes.

We hope that at Dublin our governments can come together and seek a higher level of ambition for the European Union and its future.