This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Christoph LaCourt:

.
Mr President, I should like to thank the Members for a very interesting debate.
I will make a few brief comments.

First of all, on the issue of the agencies, I totally agree that both the ECDC and EISS are very important policies, but they should not be at the cost of the other health policies.
Unless we have increased financing, we will be faced with the impossible choice of either funding fully the two agencies and doing absolutely nothing else, or splitting the money, which I am not sure would be of benefit either.
That is an important issue.

With regard to funding, I should like to thank the Members for their support.
Given the way that we work in the Union in the area of health, which involves mostly nonlegislative initiatives, more money is required.
When you legislate, it is much easier to send the proposals that have been adopted and expect Member States to implement them.
But when you want to take other initiatives of coordination, of recommendations, or of exchange of best practices, then you need more money.
I agree that we will not expand into the competence of the Member States.
We will emphasise and target areas where we can have European added value by taking action at European level.
That is in fact what the programme is doing.

Health services fall within the competence of Member States.
There is no question about that.
But in a Union of solidarity, I do not believe we can accept the health inequalities that exist today in the European Union, where we have a life expectancy variation of more than ten years from one Member State to the other.

Patient mobility is an important issue.
It is a reality that we have to deal with.
We will produce proposals in that respect.
But the target should be that patients be offered a high level of treatment where they live, where their families are, where they speak the language.
That can be achieved through programmes of centres of reference, exchange of best practices, coordinating Member States, coordinating healthcare systems and working together and achieving the highest level of service.
I repeat: that would not interfere with the issues of competence and subsidiarity.

We are working not only with blockbusting medicine; on the contrary, I would like to remind you that there is provision in the programme for rare diseases, which is also followed by orphan drugs.
We are promoting that area as well.

As regards tobacco, I could not agree more, and I would be very happy if we ever have the opportunity to have a specific debate on the tobacco area.
The issue of subsidies is correct, but I would also like to add that subsidies will eventually be phased out and that is a decision which has already been taken, but the tobacco fund that we financed in Europeanlevel campaigns gets money through those subsidies.
Once the subsidies finish, we will have no more money left for Europewide campaigns on tobacco, so that, again, is an impossible situation and I hope we 1 , 4 , 7 , 11 , 12 , 14 , 19 , 20 , 21 , 24 , 26 and 29 . There are a number of recommendations, notably paragraphs 3 , 5 , 6 , 8 , 10 , 15 , 16 , 17 , 18 , 22 , 23 and 30 , which are addressed also to the Member States, and the Commission will discuss these specific proposals with the Member States when we elaborate further on the action plan. The Commission has also taken good note of recommendation 9 , and we will look into it: coordination is certainly an issue to be addressed. Finally, there are a number of recommendations, such as 2 , 13 , 15 , 25 , 27 , 28 , 30 and 32 come up with a solution in the near future.

As regards alcohol, I would like to remind you that by the end of this year, or some time after the summer, we will produce the Community strategy proposal for a European strategy on alcohol.
I have noted the comments made about pesticides.

On financing, I would like to address MrsDoyle: I raise an accounting error  or, at least, I hope it is an accounting error  because I cannot really believe that it was intentionally decided to reduce the funding of health and consumer protection.
I hope in the overall arrangement that somebody noticed the impact that compromise would have on those two specific areas, which means it can be corrected.
If it was intentional, then I very much regret that and I cannot say much more than that.

On the issue of complementary medicine, I have noted the comments made.
We feel that this is more of an area of subsidiarity.
The Commission proposal does not deal with specific medicine as such.

Regarding environment and health  I am addressing MrsRies  we already have measures under the current programme and they will continue under a new programme especially as regards environmental determinants on health.

Coming to the various diseases, I can assure you that cancer is our priority among other diseases, but we have included a new strand which provides for the reduction of disease burden, but we believed that in a sevenyear programme we needed more flexibility, so we do not list specific diseases; however, that can be done through different decisions that can be taken in the course of the programme.
By listing some diseases, you effectively exclude others, so we wanted a more flexible approach on this.

I would also like to remind the Members that I will be bringing forward a proposal on the health strategy, which will be more detailed and will elaborate on the programme based on the funding that we will eventually obtain; so there will be a fullyfledged, broader strategy and that will be done together with the stakeholders and citizens.

In conclusion, I would like once again to thank MrTrakatellis for the excellent job he has done, as well as the members of the committee.
I thank you again for your support in this very important policy area.