This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Alastair Smith:

.
Mr President, this Parliament and the Commission are certainly joined in seeking a peaceful and democratic existence for the people of Somalia.
That has been brought out in the debate this afternoon, following MrSmiths original introduction of this subject.
I hope I shall be able to respond to paragraphs  6  and  8  in particular, concerning governance and institutionbuilding in Somalia and protection of humanitarian relief and humanitarian relief workers, as he asked me to do.

The discussion today on Somalia is timely, as the situation of the country and the region as a whole remains very fragile.
The Commission is very much concerned about the risk of Somalia returning to war and to chaos.

Ever since the establishment of the Transitional Institutions in  2004 , the Commission has been spearheading the international communitys efforts to support the Somali Transitional Federal Institutions.
My colleague, Mr Michel, follows the situation very closely and is in regular contact with President Yusuf and Prime Minister Ghedi of Somalia, as well as with leaders of the region.

I should like to focus my speech on three main aspects: firstly, the current state of play in the dialogue between the Transitional Federal Institutions and the Council of Islamic Courts; secondly, the regional dimension of the crisis in Somalia; and, thirdly, the extent of the Commissions support for the peace process as the most valuable way to promote respect for democratic principles, human rights and the rule of law.

Concerning the first  the current state of play in the dialogue between the institutions and the Islamic Courts  on  22  June the Transitional Federal Government and representatives of the Union of Islamic Courts met in Khartoum and reached an agreement of principle to engage in dialogue, to mutually recognise each other and to convene for further substantive talks on  15  July, again in Khartoum.
This agreement was welcomed by High Representative Solana and by the Commission.
The Commission takes the view that there is a window of opportunity for an interSomali political dialogue and it is crucial to engage the Islamic Courts with a view to reaching a political solution within the framework of the Transitional Federal Institutions.

Confronting the Islamic Courts is not the solution: it would not only radicalise the positions of all involved but also offer an opening to the extremists to further their agenda to create an Islamic state, to introduce Sharia Law and provide a safe haven for alQaida cells.

Secondly, the regional dimension of the crisis in Somalia is crucial.
It is essential that all regional partners show unity of purpose and engage constructively in the Somali peace process.
Destabilising interventions in Somali affairs by other countries in the region must be rejected and condemned.

We are committed to work closely and support the initiatives of IGAD, the African Union and the League of Arab States in finding a political solution to the crisis, as Mr Coveney was asking us to do.
The Commission intends to anchor Somalia in a broader regional strategy for peace, security and development for the Horn of Africa.
The outline of that strategy was presented by Commissioner Michel to the IGAD Heads of State last February.

Finally, the Commission is the main donor for Somalia, with an ongoing overall aid programme of EUR  300  million.
We have supported the Somali National Reconciliation Conference and the establishment of the Transitional Federal Institutions and are now committed to further enhancing the functioning of the Transitional Institutions.

On  28  May  2006 , President Barroso and Commissioner Michel signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Transitional Federal Government.
I can confirm that the Commission intends to make EUR  22  million available immediately to support the shortterm governance and capacitybuilding priorities set out by the Transitional Federal Government.

We remain unequivocally committed to supporting the peace process.
The Commissions humanitarian arm, ECHO, is also providing direct relief assistance to the civilian population affected by the fighting, as well as by the consequences of drought.
Everyone has a responsibility for ensuring the safe delivery of that humanitarian assistance and providing the safe custody and security of the humanitarian workers, all of whom are involved in this very valuable work.