This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Frederic Green:

Madam President, Mr Schulz has already made the important point that, indeed, we must improve the procedures in this House.
I will not come back to it.
I just wish to add one point.
Why can we not interrupt the sittings before the vote at  12  noon five minutes beforehand to let everybody come into the Chamber?
Then we will have an orderly debate.
What we experienced before was shameful and I really would like the Bureau and the Conference of Presidents to look into the matter.

Mr Bontempis report is characterized by a pragmatic and very instrumentalist approach.
Principles are fine but progress in concrete matters is essential.
We are faced here with, you might say, the positive side of negative integration.
We have here one of the Commissioners who is working closely on the sideeffects of the internal market.
Everybody will soon be able to move freely around Europe except police and justice officials.
That is the heart of the matter.
It is very important that finally Member States are beginning to realize that a purely intergovernmental approach is not there simply to protect national interests but, at the end of the day, stands in the way of national justice.
The intergovernmentalist approach for the last  50  years was exemplified by the Council of Europe.
This is an important organization, but we all realize that justice and police cooperation in a Europe of  15  Member States without borders can no longer be achieved by ratifying national conventions which come too late, do too little, and have only partial effects.
It is this essential point which Mr Bontempi so rightly highlights in his report.

It is not a question of wanting to do away with democracy and national constitutional guarantees.
The European Union has become mature enough with its emphasis on human rights and protecting democracy, for progress to be made.

The Amsterdam Treaty  Mr Bontempi makes this quite clear  shows the way forward.
We can no longer work within the national conventions as if the European Union were simply an intergovernmental structure.
That is the heart of the matter.
This morning Mrs Gradin, in her initial response, made it quite clear that framework decisions should be the priority instrument in future for making progress.

I say this with great emphasis because it is the only way finally to involve also the countries of central and eastern Europe.
We must make more progress in this whole area if we are going to have an adequate reception of central and eastern Europe into the present European structures.
If this Europe, the Europe which we have been building for the last  40  years, cannot make more progress in justice and police cooperation how can we expect countries which, for  40  years, have been suffering from dictatorship, lack of protection of human rights and lack of institutionbuilding to really come in with us and make the progress which we jointly want?

It is essential and I would ask Commissioner Monti, who is standing in for Mrs Gradin, to say whether the PHARE programme should not be far more used to promote justice and police cooperation.
This is also in the spirit of Mr Bontempi.

It still remains disgraceful that neither the national parliaments nor the European Parliament are really involved.
This point has been made before; we should not be defensive.
There is no way forward except for the national parliaments and the European Parliament to make more efforts to work jointly in this area.
The political will which is so often lacking in making progress should be made clear, both on the national side and on the parliamentary side, in this House.
The European Court of Justice, which has been the pearl of the institutions, still has an inadequate role in this whole process.
The Court can only give preliminary rulings if members so choose and even then it cannot really give an interpretation of the Treaty.
It is limited to framework decisions and decisions on the various conventions.
We must make progress in this field as well and it is again a point made very clearly by Mr Bontempi.

In short we really can do a lot more together but the central point remains that the political will on the part of the Member States is sometimes used as an alibi.
The approach of protecting national interests is an alibi for making progress at European level.
Against that we should strongly protest and it is that element which underlines Mr Bontempis approach; we welcome it very much.
I hope also that the Commission will take it seriously for the current period.