This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Lynne Reid:

Madam President, we in the EPP Group think that the Collins report is fine as far as it goes, although we have our reservations about paragraph  11 , to which we have tabled an amendment and on which we hope Mr Collins will have second thoughts.

Clearly there is a very serious problem here: laws are passed on the environment and then they are widely ignored.
Reporting requirements are introduced and they are ignored.
Mr White apparently complains from his constituency in England, and his complaint is lost or forgotten and he does not hear anything about it.
No one in Brussels can really say that they know how or whether the law is being enforced, even in crucial sectors of environmental policy such as hazardous waste management, where to date the European Commission has received reports from only six of the fifteen Member States.
In fact you could say, in the presence of the Georgian delegation, that we are  sadly  not a terribly good example of how to apply European environmental legislation.

Fines are introduced, under Article  171  of the Treaty.
They have been introduced rather laboriously but they have yet to be applied.
I hope that when the Environmental Commissioner replies, she may be able to give us some uptotheminute news on what is happening to the actions which the Commission apparently announced in January under Article  171  against a number of Member States which have successively ignored European Court of Justice judgments since  1990 .

So I agree with the Collins recommendations on the whole.
It is particularly interesting that Mr Collins has proposed that we should try to bring into play a sort of inspectorate of the inspectors  a small force that might be able to go around examining whether Member States are in fact putting the law into action themselves.

I offer three reinforcements to the points made in the report.
We cannot continue to go on relying on individual complaints, such as those that have been mentioned, on inspection or on selfinspection  by which I mean the reporting requirement.
My three points are as follows.
First, on cost: one of the great deficiencies of the Commissions approach to environmental legislation is that it seems prepared to ignore the cost of legislation.
The real trouble is: will a costimpact statement work?
It does not have to apply to all legislation but we in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have seen that when a costimpact statement is put together it is either extremely difficult for the Commission to take action on it or it is completely worthless, as in the case of the impact statement on the bathing waters directive.

I therefore suggest to the Commission that it would be better, if we are going to apply codecision to the whole of environmental legislation  which is highly likely  that at some stage, either at the preliminary draft stage or at the common position stage, the Commission should invite the Member States to state their assessment of the cost of implementing the legislation within their territory.
This should be a published statement by each Member State.
It could then be debated.
It would probably be hotly contested by nongovernmental organizations, but it would at least drag the issue out into the open, and I hope that idea recommends itself to the Commission.

Secondly, on transparency: the Commission should be more honest with Parliament about the problems it encounters with the Member States.
I do not see any point in preserving confidentiality if all that does is make it more difficult to ensure that the law is being enforced.
As an example: on  19  July  1996 , the Prime Minister of France had his office issue a press release stating that the implementation of the habitats directive in France was to be suspended.
We MEPs owe it to my Dutch colleague, Mr Eisma, that he asked a written question in the Official Journal which brought this into the open.
I am afraid that I did not know that this had happened.
None of my French colleagues brought it to my attention and it would have been right for the Commission to come back to Parliament and say: look, help!
The French have unilaterally suspended application to France of an entire directive which Parliament had a hand in adopting.
That at least would have put the French Government on the spot.
As it is, the implementation of that directive is still suspended in France, and that is completely unacceptable.

Thirdly and finally, enlargement: what do we do about enlargement?
We are either going to have a very long series of derogations indeed in relation to existing environmental legislation, or we are going to have a situation where new Member States accept the existing bulk of legislation  the socalled acquis communautaire  and then do not do anything about it.

My final suggestion is that when the Commission presents new legislation to Parliament  which it really should have started to do on  1  January  1997   this should contain an enlargementimpact statement.
Will it be possible even for the most hopeful Member States to comply with the sort of deadlines which we set, for example in the autooil directives or, more recently, in the directive of which I am the rapporteur, the landfill directive?
They cannot even comply with that directive in East Germany.
It is highly unlikely that any of the deadlines which the Commission is putting forward there would be met in Poland, Hungary, etc.
We need an enlargementimpact statement attached to all environmental legislation put before this Parliament from now on.