This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Katarina Green:

Mr President, can I first of all of behalf of the whole House thank the President of the Ecofin Council for his presentation today and more importantly, for the way in which he has engaged the European Parliament in dialogue since the Irish took over the presidency of the European Union.
I am sure I can speak on behalf of the whole House when I say how much we have valued his participation, not only in the meetings here in the Chamber, but also in Parliaments Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and of course the informal meetings we have had over the last few months.
I would also like to thank the rapporteurs who have conducted the work on behalf of Parliament in an excellent fashion.
We have been able to coordinate these reports so that we can have this general debate today on what is an extremely important and indeed a historic issue for the European Union.

We have the privilege today of having this debate on the single currency.
We are debating reports which have been discussed in our various committees in Parliament, we have had the chance to discuss them in our political groups and we are now having a public debate on the floor of this House, as indeed we have had on many occasions in the past.
I hope that the President of the Ecofin Council, when he presides over the Finance Ministers on Monday, encourages all his colleagues, to engage in a similar debate in their own national parliaments because that is the way we can defeat the Euroscepticism in Europe that exists at the moment on the single currency, by having public debates in our own parliaments, our national parliaments, and ensuring that these issues are fully aired.

I hope that this House will join with me in condemning any government that prevents the national parliament having a debate on what is of course an absolutely crucial issue for the citizens of the European Union.
In particular he could whisper across the table to Mr Clark and encourage the British Government to have a full debate in the British Parliament in the very near future on this issue.

I would like to deal particularly with the issue of the stability pact.
Let me say on behalf of my group that we remain fully committed to the single currency.
We remain absolutely committed to strong economic coordination, which includes budgetary discipline, and we support the timetable for the implementation of the single currency from  1  January  1999 .
We are not prepared, however, to accept the budgetary straightjacket that the German Finance Minister is trying to impose on us within the European Union.

We are in favour of having a stability pact that looks at the wider employment and economic implications for Europe, a pact that contain spending and borrowing at reasonable prudent levels, but which allows countries to take the necessary steps to prevent their economies slipping into recession.
We should not be trying to tie the hands of national governments in managing their own economies.
Any stability pact that emerges from the Ecofin Council that does that will be unacceptable not only to this House, but I believe will be unacceptable to the  15  national parliaments within the European Union.

On  16  October the European Commission agreed on the proposal for a stability pact to ensure budgetary discipline during the third phase of EMU.
What was expected to be a fiscal straightjacket, fully inspired by irrational fears of fiscal irresponsibility rather than rational economic thinking, turned into a more reasonable, albeit still partly unsatisfactory instrument, to respond to a legitimate need for budgetary discipline amongst Member States in a forthcoming monetary union.
By avoiding quantifying significant negative annual real growth in the definition of exceptional and temporary circumstances, whose recognition allows temporary suspension of the obligation of compliance with the budget deficit criterion, the Commission refused to deprive Member States of the required budget flexibility to act promptly and effectively against significantly declining growth.

I commend the European Commission for having refused to tie the hands of Member States.
I hope after the vote in this House tomorrow the Commission will maintain its position.
I have great doubts however about whether the Ecofin Council will maintain the position proposed by the European Commission.
I hope that if this Parliament votes to have a much more general definition tomorrow, combined with the views of the European Commission, then the Ecofin Council will ensure that it does not have a prescriptive definition when it comes to some of these issues associated with the stability pact.

We have to realise that if you have a Member State that suffers from a fall in its real GDP of  1   in a given year, going inevitably handinhand with increasing unemployment, raising unemployment benefit expenditure and falling tax revenues, in such a difficult situation any country would witness a rapidly deteriorating budget deficit of several percentage points likely to push it over the  3   deficit ceiling, thus making it excessive.
Even in such a difficult case, if the countrys first priority was to fight a rising deficit, what would then happen is that it would be unable to take the steps to deal with the unemployment problem and the problem of the decline in its economy.

We cannot have that sort of straightjacket placed on Member States.
We cannot put economies in the European Union in that position and I do not believe that national parliaments will accept it.
We have to accept that over  90   of Europes economy relies on the European market providing for powerful transmission mechanisms and spillover effects between Member States.
You could end up, if you accept the Waigel proposal with a large European recession, and in all probability with the larger Member States affected first.
The big Member States would be attacked by the measures that we might put in place at the Dublin Summit Meeting.

What I want to say to the PresidentinOffice of the Ecofin Council is yes, have a stability pact but have a stability pact that takes account of economic growth.
Yes, we want to have prudent spending and prudent borrowing.
We want to make sure that Member States do not undermine the single currency when it is created, but be realistic about this.
Do not create a mechanism that is unnecessary and which in the future could push Europe into a deep recession.
The European Parliament will not accept that, Member States will not accept that, and of course, most importantly, the people of Europe will condemn us if we bring that into operation.