This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Helen Finlayson:

Mr President, this is a joint report by my colleague, Mr Schiedermeier, and myself.
Indeed, on the subject of Italy, which we will be discussing, I remember a few years ago we went to Italy with the Social Affairs Committee.
The Secretariat did not know who was doyen dage , the oldest Member.
They thought it was Mr Schiedermeier because he had white hair.
In actual fact, when they checked the records, I was a few weeks older than him, so it should have been me.
So it was quite interesting that we were both approaching our  60 th year.

This report is the result of the conference which we held on the elderly in October.
It put forward the views of the elderly citizens of the Community, what they might like to see for the future, and what kind of recommendations we would make for the United Nations Year of the Elderly.
The elderly  senior citizens, or grey panthers, as they are called in the United States; grey power in the UK  represent a very important part of the Community.
I see many of the golden oldies or grey oldies around me this morning: on my left, Mr Schiedermeier, on my right Mr Falconer.
They have changed their usual political positions.

The conference came up with some recommendations which we have put to the Commission.
The Commission is bringing forward a communication on problems of the elderly.
We are not just talking about people beyond the age of retirement, we are talking about people from  60  years of age to  75 .
There are  75  million people over the age of  60  in the European Union.
This will increase.
Demographic trends are going to create a timebomb for the decisionmakers of the future.
We must be able to respond to this.
Ageing is high on the EUs political agenda.
I am quite sure that in the next few weeks, when our colleagues go to the hustings, they will be besieged by many of the Communitys senior citizens, asking what the European Parliament is going to do for them.
Over  42   of voters in the EU are over  50  years of age.
So, if we have  75  million people over the age of  60  and  42   of the voters are over  50  years of age, obviously the issues of senior citizens and the elderly are going to be important in campaigning.

The over 50 s represent  33   of the whole population of the EU; onethird of the EU is over  50 .
Article  13  of the Amsterdam Treaty outlaws discrimination on the grounds of age, sex, gender, disability, sexual orientation, etc.
It now gives the Commission a legal peg to introduce measures for the elderly and senior citizens.
At the moment the Commission is constrained by the existing legal bases.
But the Amsterdam Treaty now gives the Commission the opportunity to deal with discrimination on the grounds of race or age.
We look forward to seeing what will come out of the employment guidelines which the Commission agreed at the conference in Luxembourg and some of the discussions about the European Social Fund and older workers.
There are tremendous possibilities there.
Fiftyone percent of all men seeking work are in the  5064  age group.
There will probably be some Members, like myself, who are in a similar position after  13  June.
The percentage for women is the same:  51   of women who are seeking work are in the  5064  age group.

Employment is a very serious issue for this age group.
It is time that we, in the institutions, put our own house in order and deal with the ageism that we practice in some of our recruitment policies.

So what can we do about this, now having stated the problem?
The Amsterdam Treaty is one area where we can do something.
Health is another area.
I would hope that the Commission will bring forward an action programme on health for elderly people and for the whole Community under Article  137 .

The elderly are not a homogeneous group.
We must not treat them just as elderly and lock them away in a cupboard or parcel them off and say that is elderly.
We must try to pull the Union and its citizens together and have genuine solidarity.
We must not just limit our measures to older people themselves.

So these are some of the measures we are putting forward.
I would like to thank Mr Schiedermeier for his cooperation.
I thank the staff of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment.
As this is my swan song as rapporteur for this mandate, I must say I have enjoyed my experience this year.

Loud applause