This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Lynne White:

Member of the Commission.
 Mr President, having listened carefully to the discussion here tonight, I think you might get the impression from some speeches that this is the first step we are taking to help the dairy sector within the European Union.
Nothing could be more wrong.
I am quite sure that at least some of you know what has been going on since January this year when we started on the public and private storage, we started intervention, and we started export refunds.
We have been taking lots of different measures over the summer so I think we should devise a special study to tell the new Members of this Parliament exactly what has been going on since last January.

On the specific points on the two proposals here today, I have to repeat again that the buyup scheme is not a new scheme.
It is already there for Member States to use if they want to help specific dairy farmers out of business.
It is an offer, and that is why I do not want to make it compulsory; it is a possibility for helping farmers out of business.
The quota they buy out can be kept in the national reserve and distributed at a later stage if Member States so wish.
This was one part of the discussion.

The other part, which has aroused by far the most interest today, is Article  186 .
The reason for introducing dairy farming into Article  186  is the fact that we need to be able to react fast.
By the way, I do not see any reason why dairy farming should not be part of Article  186 , as areas specifically within the meat sector are already there.
And, in general, those who fear that the Commission will get a blank cheque and do whatever they want should keep in mind that Article  186  is normally by nature a very positive scheme where it is possible to try to help people who are in difficulties by reacting very fast.
So it is not a blank cheque.
It will be discussed, as you probably know, in the Management Committee.

I have listened to your ideas concerning a more limited period of three or four years.
I think it would disqualify dairy farmers  but of course I have listened to what you say.

Then I think there are lots of mistaken ideas going round.
This EUR  280  million is not for restructuring.
It simply offers a possibility of paying out very quickly as soon as we have the formalities in place, with the acceptance from the Ecofin meeting in November and the signing of the budget for  2010 .
This means we can act immediately, which would not be the case if we do not have Article  186  in place.
So it is not restructuring.
As I said before, it gives Member States the possibility of paying the most needy from this national budget.

How should it be distributed?
I have clearly said it has to be on the basis of production.
I can hear that there may be other ideas but if we start discussing internally how to distribute, then I think it would take at least to the end of next year because there would be so many great ideas we would never be able to find a common line on this issue.

I will reply to some of the specific questions.
I would like to say that producer organisations are an excellent option.
It is actually necessary.
I have said that clearly in plenary before, specifically when discussing the fruit and vegetable scheme.
If farmers spend their time and efforts competing against each other instead of competing with the strong retail sector, I know who the winners and the losers will be.
Therefore I say: do work together to be a much stronger body in the whole food chain.

I completely agree with you that we have a global problem, that we have one billion people starving, not being able to get what they need to eat every day.
That is why I was hurt to see European farmers spreading milk all over the fields in a situation where we are facing starvation problems globally.
That is not the best image for European agriculture.

I have to say that I am very impressed at the way in which two Members, Mr Bov and Mr Husling, managed to gear their speaking time.
I noticed very carefully how it was done.
I do not know if it is a new procedure of the House that one speaker can substitute for another who then goes in to speak under catchtheeye.
It was quite smart, I would say.

(Applause)