This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Helen Brown:

I should like first of all to thank Mr Prodi for elaborating today at much greater length on a number of the priorities which he wishes to emphasise for the next Commission.
The full definition of the Prodi project properly should await the new parliamentary mandate and the nomination of the new Commission.

I wish however today to make some remarks on the policy side arising from what Mr Prodi has said.
I take note of that fact that as he talked about Europes profile in the world he referred to enlargement and mentioned that enlargement will move the epicentre of the European Union towards the east.
I would like, on behalf of the Liberal Democrat Group, to place a somewhat greater emphasis on the urgency of achieving as early as possible an enlargement towards the east.

May I say to Mr Prodi that some weeks ago at a Liberal International Congress in Brussels we were addressed by the Hungarian Prime Minister, Mr Viktor Orban.
He reminded us of the words of another politician from Eastern Europe, saying that since  1989  they have been told in Central and Eastern Europe that enlargement is always just five years away.
We must draw a line under that and we must make sure that during the lifetime of the next Parliament and during the mandate of the Prodi Commission we actually bring about the reality of the first enlargement to the East.
For my group that would be a serious and significant priority.

To do that of course requires greater urgency in modernising the democracy of the Union.
That greater urgency has been recognised in the Council suggestion that we should have an intergovernmental conference beginning next year, something which we subscribe to.
I would like to say to Mr Prodi that we, in our group, believe that as part of his European vocation for a new millennium and for the new enlarged Europe  he should perhaps reflect on the desirability of introducing into the debate the concept of a constitution for Europe.
The aim here is not to finalise a project which is always evolving, but to help clarify for citizens in a meaningful way the whole complex of the documents we have produced in treaty form, the kinds of priorities that we have for the Union and the limits  because some of course also worry about the excesses of the Union.
I certainly would commend to you that you examine the question of bringing forward as part of your project a constitution for Europe in the new millennium.

In respect of the formation of the Commission itself, I should say that you have my groups full support.
As you leave this House to go to the various capitals and form the Commission, we have a number of priorities we would like to see in respect of balance.
It has been mentioned before that we expect to see gender balance.
I would also emphasise that we expect to see political balance, that is a balance of political philosophies and views and also a certain balance that reflects the role of the main political forces in this Parliament.
This is important.

You said here today that you intend to have more team work.
That is essential.
One of your chosen mechanisms to achieve enhanced coordination will be through the Commission VicePresidents.You have not said how many vicepresidents you anticipate.
Perhaps you could be more specific or perhaps that is premature, but I would say this to you, the greater the number of vicepresidents, the greater the onus to ensure for the sake of balance that some would come from smaller States.

I do not wish, Mr Prodi, to anticipate the hearings of Parliament but I do have a question: in the event that Parliament decided that one ro more of the nominee Commissioners was not acceptable, what would you propose to do, given the powers you have under the Treaty of Amsterdam?
We urge you, both in choice of your Commissioners and in such an eventuality, to use your fullest powers under that Treaty and to demonstrate that indeed you are your own man.

In the time that remains to me I should like to turn to Mr Verheugen and to the Council.
If I understood correctly, Mr Verheugen, you urged us to complete this procedure of nominating and putting in place the new Commission by the end of July.
I respect politically why you say that but it shows scant regard and little understanding for the due process in this Parliament.
I want to treat this with urgency but also with due gravity and it would turn this House into a rubber stamp and nothing more if we were rushed into it prematurely by the end of July.
Worse than that, if we got it wrong in July, we might want a second bite of the cherry next January and act more vigorously then than need be.

Let us get right rather than get it early.
If there is a problem now with an interim Commission that has lost its moral and political authority to act, the problem arises, in my view, because of the failure of the Council to listen to Parliament and to appoint an effective interim Commission.
That is not a failure of this House.
It is a failure of the Council.