This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Michael White:

Member of the Commission.
 Mr President, I welcome the opportunity to address this partsession of the European Parliament covering, inter alia, the subject of the Commissions assessment of the National Energy Efficiency Action Plans (NEEAPs), which was presented in the Second Strategic Energy Review package in November  2008  and the earlier Commission communication of January  2008 .

A more detailed technical synthesis of the Commissions assessment of the NEEAPs will be presented in the Commissions NEEAP document this spring.

I would, therefore, like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, Mr Gyrk, on his work, as well as the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy (ITRE) for its valuable discussions and comments.

In the past few years, the Commission has stated very clearly that energy efficiency is the first priority of the European Union energy policy and a very important cornerstone to meeting the  2020  by  2020  targets, and National Energy Efficiency Action Plans play a central role in this respect.
The Directive on energy enduse efficiency and energy services sets an obligation, as you know, for the Member States to present these, and to show how, in practice, they are going to achieve their national targets for energy efficiency.

The original deadline for their submission by the Member States was  30  June  2007  but, as you know, many Member States unfortunately were late.
The last NEEAPs arrived at the Commission in June  2008 .

At this stage, the Commission has completed all the individual assessments and sent letters with the results of those assessments to all Member States.
As a followup, a number of bilateral meetings took place, and a number of Member States declared they would themselves like to improve their NEEAPs in the coming few months.
As has been noted by the members of the ITRE Committee, the first National Energy Efficiency Action Plans have proved to be a really useful exercise.
Indeed, many Member States have, for the first time, prepared comprehensive plans of action on energy savings.
Many of them confirmed that they found the crosssectoral effort needed to prepare them very useful.

Under the Energy Services Directive, NEEAPs have only a limited role.
However, the Commission, in its communication of November  2008 , and in other recent statements has always encouraged Member States to broaden their role.

The Commission will prepare a new European Union Energy Savings Action Plan that will strengthen and better focus European Union actions, helping EU Member States and EU businesses and EU citizens to save energy in a costeffective way.

In your report, you urged the Commission to propose a binding target for energy savings.
The current energy savings objective of  20  of primary energy saving in  2020  today represents a nonbinding target, as you know.
However, the Commission believes that, with the climate and energy package, as well as the proposals in the Second Strategic Energy Review, we can reach  20 .

Mr Gyrks report also rightly indicated that financial support must be increased.
Financial issues relating to energy savings were recognised by the Commission in the European Economic Recovery Plan of  26  November  2008 , and in other coordinated efforts which aim to help create jobs, which are often in small and mediumsized companies, since investments in energy efficiency, and especially in buildings, are mostly related to smallscale renovation projects.

In conclusion, I would like to recall that during the mandate of this Commission, EU leaders have given a real commitment to promoting energy efficiency.
Boosting investment in energy efficiency and related new technologies offers an essential contribution to sustainable development and also to security of supply.
Energy efficiency has a wider impact, far beyond energy policy.
It has a positive effect on the European Union economy in general: increasing efficiency helps create new jobs, stimulates economic growth and improves competitiveness.
As you rightly mentioned, that is exactly what we should be doing in these difficult and challenging times.