This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Nancy MacLeod:

Mr President, I believe that the idea behind this directive is a good one.
We know that in the European Union an increasing number of consumers buy goods in each others countries and this is likely to increase with the use of the single currency.
We also know that when they do so, consumers are often underinformed and confused about the nature of the guarantees that go with the goods that they buy.

I have great sympathy with the point of view put forward by Mrs Sandbk.
The easiest way of dealing with this problem would have been to introduce a simple measure saying that consumers must be informed as to their rights regarding guarantees in the country where they are purchasing goods at the time of that purchase.
If they are buying something in Denmark they know they are in Denmark.
They can look out of the window and see Danish people walking up and down speaking Danish.
They are not going to get a French guarantee, they are going to get the Danish guarantee.
I believe that simple move would have been a great improvement on the situation as it is at the moment in many Member States.

The difficulty of that would have been that it would put the Consumer Directorate out of a job in the European Commission.
The lure of a harmonising directive has proved too much for them.
So in this draft directive the Commission has sought to harmonise the nature of the guarantee offered in all Member States and consumer rights under that guarantee.

The Commissions association with the directive has not been happy.
The original text was very badly drafted and the impact statement said simply: Compliance costs are negligible.
This was roundly contradicted by the economic impact statement produced for the Commission by the Wilhelm Consulting Group, which found substantial increased costs likely to arise in some retailing sectors.
The Council has now improved the texts.
We have to say that the common position is preferable to the original and to what I describe as the rapporteurs tinkering with the text.

The Commission has also extended the scope of the directive to cover all secondhand goods.
How realistic is this?
Would it apply to goods sold, for example, in charity shops and car boot sales?
If the sellers here had to offer a minimum oneyear guarantee, as the directive states, surely this directive would threaten their future operation?
Neither the Commission nor the Council of Ministers has thought through the implications of extending a minimum oneyear guarantee to secondhand goods.
Article  7  makes it quite clear that this guarantee would cover all secondhand goods for at least one year.
Do they know about that at Oxfam?
Are they happy about that at your neighbouring car boot sale?

In opting to cover secondhand goods the Commission has inadvertently included within the scope of the directive sales of art, antiques and collectibles.
Three of the four remedies provided in the draft directive could not possibly apply to them.
How does one replace or repair a Canaletto?
Reduction in price would be very difficult to agree.
Amendment No  34 , which I am moving with Mr Whitehead, offers the possibility of excluding the sellers liability for any lack of conformity in such cases.
I hope this commonsense amendment will find favour.

Finally, the directive and the rapporteur show a touching faith in human nature.
The directive tries and fails to clarify the rights of the ignorant consumer but, in fact, it offers aid and comfort to the unscrupulous consumer who will be only too happy to use all legal loopholes created in order to demand replacement of goods or reimbursement of the purchase price.
Mrs Kuhn has made things much worse.

To sum up, there is one and only one group of people who will benefit from this directive: Europes lawyers.
If it is adopted, this directive, I can confidently predict, will encourage legal uncertainty and increasing litigation.
Europes consumers have very little to gain from it and Europes small businesses will pay for it.
Mr Santer promises less law but better law.
This is more law and worse law.