This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Roger Corless:

Mr President, on behalf of the Socialist Group I wish to express our very strong support for this current programme of measures to combat unemployment in Europes areas of industrial decline.
Support, because job creation and an end to the scourge of unemployment must be the first priority of our Structural Fund programmes; support, because people living in our coalmining, textile, steel and defence regions did not ask for the economic shock waves that have taken the heart out of their communities and no one can ask them to rebuild their economies without public support; and support, because this ECU  9 bn of expenditure  more than  7 m  represents the peoples priorities on how European money should be spent.

In congratulating Mr Vallv on his report, I note there are many areas of agreement with my own parallel report on guidelines for Objective  1  and  5 b areas over the same period.
We agree on the need to ensure stricter adherence to equal opportunities and environmental objectives in all of the programmes.
Five per cent for the environment: that means that  95   of the money could be harming our natural resources, and that is not good enough.

We agree on the need to support the guidelines process to ensure common themes underlie the programmes in each of our countries, and the need for a full consultation on those guidelines by the European Commission.
I hope the Commissioner will take the opportunity this morning to guarantee to us that the new sets of guidelines will be ready by  31  December.

We agree that the delayed agreement of the programmes in the first period   12   of the money being carried over  causes unacceptable damage in the regions and localities which wait too long and then are forced to spend too quickly.

On behalf of my own country, we appreciate that the United Kingdom is the biggest beneficiary of this programme: some ECU  2 . 7 bn  over  2 bn.
More than  150   000  small and mediumsized companies in Britain are being helped today thanks to that money.
With some  14   of all public investment in metropolitan France represented in this programme, it demonstrates, beyond doubt, the value of the safety net, which we argued for in the next programming period, to avoid a sudden disappearance of this very significant level of support.
I thank the Commission for accepting what we had to say.

The Socialists will support the vast majority of amendments before the House today.
In particular, we support the conclusions of our colleagues from the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs that more money must be allocated to new sources of employment, including the cooperative sector, environmental projects and local development initiatives.
We agree with them that the complete lack of evaluation of the number of disabled beneficiaries is a marked failure to achieve the mainstreaming, which the Commission so often talks about.

Let me explain where we must disagree.
Firstly, we cannot support specific amendments which single out maritime fisheries or urban areas for special priority, whatever our personal sympathies, because this represents a balanced package in which no one special interest can be advocated above any other.
Secondly, we cannot support proposals for the split in funding or criteria in relation to the new Structural Fund regulation.
That debate is being held in committee, and it would be premature to resolve those issues today.
Thirdly, we will not single out the Commission for specific criticism over underspending or for its failure to address the horizontal objectives sufficiently.

We share the concerns, but we prefer to work together with the Commissioner to constructively tackle the causes of these problems in the future.

Finally, in our resolution of  14  February  1996  we stated our demands for this programme to the Commissioner.
I am delighted that those were largely agreed.
 14  February is Valentines Day  a day for sharing messages between lovers.
With the greatest respect to Mrs WulfMathies, even if we cannot guarantee such a close relationship today between Parliament and the Commission, we thank her and congratulate her on the very important work being achieved in this programme.