This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Victor Jones:

Member of the Commission.
Mr President, I would like to thank all the speakers for their very constructive contributions to this afternoons discussion.

First of all, I would like to repeat that from the conservation point of view there is no basis to take any action, because in  1970 s we had  2  million seals of the most hunted species, and now we have  5 . 8  million of these seals.
We are looking only at the second issue  it is very important.

As regards the study, firstly I have to repeat that the Commission fully recognises the high level of public concern regarding the application of humane killing methods, and in line with its commitment to high animal welfare standards, we will examine all available information.
There are reports  which are partly contradictory  that seals are being hunted and killed in some regions in an inhumane way.
The assessment that I referred to  and which one of the speakers found to be necessary  will present balanced, objective and operational conclusions and recommendations.
The overall outcome should enable the Commission to draw some conclusions and to come back with possible legislative proposals if this is warranted by the situation.

Regarding the moratorium, in legal terms the Commission does not have available an immediate remedy to impose a moratorium on the import, export and trade in seal products.
It would not be possible to refer to the safeguard measures provided for under the public health and animal policy that would allow for a temporary ban when public or animal health is threatened.
For example, the decision to temporarily suspend imports of wild birds was adopted in order to protect animal and public health because of the risk of a worldwide spread of avian influenza.

Furthermore, under the trade policy there is no immediate remedy possible.
Any measure the European Union decided to adopt would need to be necessary and proportional and would need to be notified to the World Trade Organization.
At this stage it is therefore not appropriate, nor is it feasible, to impose an immediate trade ban.

The Commission first needs to carry out an objective assessment of all available information.
The outcome of this assessment should enable the Commission to draw sound conclusions and to come back with possible legislative proposals if this is warranted by the situation.

Reference was made to the United States, and its Marine Mammal Protection Act was enacted in  1972 , which was before the International Convention on Trade in Endangered Species entered into force in  1975 .
Furthermore, Member States have the opportunity to impose measures according to the case law of the European Court of Justice, but the Community has no such legal basis.

I would ask you to urge your governments in your Member States to impose bans  they have the legal means.
We need to have the appropriate legal basis before we can impose bans at European Union level and that is what we are trying to do by having an impact assessment and by gathering information.
However, if you show your concern in your countries and urge your governments to impose bans, this will facilitate internal market reasons for the European Union to take steps.

Finally, I wish to reiterate that the Commission is strongly committed to high animal welfare standards, both within the European Union and at international level.
A full objective assessment of the animal welfare aspects of seal hunting will allow us to see the whole picture and have a solid basis before drawing any conclusions.
We shall examine all available information and take the necessary steps.
If it is established that seals are being hunted and killed in an inhumane way, a ban on the import and export, as well as the placing of products derived from the seal hunt on the market, will also be considered.

We will report back to the European Parliament within the shortest possible time.
I repeat that we have already asked the European Food Safety Authority to conduct the scientific part of the study, and I have written to the Canadian Government to ask that we be allowed to participate in a mission, and the European Parliament is also invited to participate in order to see how the hunt is being organised.
What you said previously about your experiences is very interesting.