This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by James Smith:

.
 Mr President, Commissioner Fige, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by thanking Commissioner Fige for his introductory remarks, and also for having so clearly summed up the spirit of this agreement at first reading, and explained the improvements in the text that our joint efforts helped make possible, pointing out that, ambitious though it is, it is now more sensitive to social factors and more balanced, which is a triumph for our joint endeavour.

Looking back briefly, let me say that the recommendation on key competences for lifelong learning takes as its starting point the changed state of the world, with a globalised economy in which Europe stands a chance only if we provide our people with better education and training, which is why education policy is meant to be  and must be  an integral part of the Lisbon Strategy.
Being a continent without much in the way of its own raw materials, our chances of having a future in a globalised economy are closely tied up with the resources of education and research; it is in peoples qualities and skills that our future potential is to be found, and that is why the Member States and the European Union must invest more in education and clarify their thinking about what skills are actually needed in a knowledgebased society.
That is the purpose of the recommendations on the eight key competences, and I will repeat that these are no more than recommendations.

The key competences are: firstly, communication in ones mother tongue; secondly, communication in foreign languages; thirdly, competences in maths, science and technology; fourth, digital competence; fifth, learning to learn; sixth, interpersonal, intercultural and social competences, and civic competence; seventh, entrepreneurship, and the eighth is cultural expression.
All of them are needed for social cohesion, employability and personal development.
It is intended that the Member States should be supported making policies enabling all young people, once their basic education is completed, to possess sufficient key competences to be able to embark on adult life, and adults to develop these competences in line with the latest knowledge throughout their lives.

The key competences are not ranked in any kind of hierarchy; while they are all equal in value, they do of course overlap, and they all contribute towards a successful life in a knowledgebased society.
These competences are defined as a combination of knowledge, skills and attitudes.
It is the key competences that we all need if we are to enjoy personal satisfaction in the knowledge society, that we need for our own personal development, for active participation, social integration and employment.
The concept of mankind underpinning this definition of key competences bears the stamp of humanism, and what breathes life into this recommendation is the idea that competences are not to be considered solely in terms of the uses to which they can be put, but that 103 limits in time, until 1 April 2008 , the possibility for the Commission to grant such authorisations. Imposing such a sunset clause is clearly not in line with the recent agreement on the revised comitology procedure. As part of this deal both the Council and Parliament agreed not to limit in time the powers granted to the Commission. For the same reasons, Amendments 20 , 22 and 24 are not acceptable either. Some of you have raised the SWIFT crisis widely reported in the media during the last few weeks. You are aware that the issue is on Parliaments agenda later this week and my colleague Mr Frattini will make a declaration on behalf of the Commission. We will make sure that we have all the facts of this case before taking any decision on further action. As far as this regulation is concerned, the Commission considers that it contains the appropriate standards on data protection and access by the competent authorities to such data. Your rapporteur had the foresight to submit the proposal to the European Data Protection Supervisor, who gave a positive assessment. No problems were detected on data protection issues. Let me stress once more that noncompliance by 1 January 2007 education is always of value in itself as well.

This concept of key skills includes such attitudes as critical thinking, creativity, the seizing of initiative, problemsolving, the willingness to take risks, decisionmaking and entrepreneurial flair.
As I see it, we have, politically speaking, opted for the right approach in giving the Member States these definitions as guidelines for their educational policies, thereby enabling them to prepare themselves better for the future.
My particular concern was that it should, in the negotiations with the Council and the Commission, be made clear that, no matter how ambitious these key skills are  for we must all keep on learning if we are to succeed and be content in a knowledgebased society  the social aspect must not be forgotten, for not everyone starts from the same point or with the same opportunities.
That is why it is particularly important to help and support people with learning difficulties by reason of their background or social position, those who have dropped out of school, people with poor literacy skills, the longterm unemployed or people who want to get back to work after a long break, not least  and in particular  women returning to work after having children.
All these circumstances need to be taken into account if people are to be given the specific help they need to make use of their educational opportunities.

Following a number of rounds of negotiations with the Council, we were able to agree on a recommendation that is socially aware and emphasises gender equality, while at the same time being very ambitious.
I regard this compromise as a good one, and so my recommendation to all the Members of this House is that they adopt this text in the version agreed at first reading.
The negotiations were constructive and interesting, and for that I want to extend the warmest of thanks to the Members of this House, to the Commission and to the Council.