This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Helen Cameron:

Member of the Commission.
Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs KratsaTsagaropoulou for her excellent report.
It comes at a key moment as it concerns cooperation with the southern Mediterranean area, whilst the strengthened Neighbourhood Policy is also being implemented.
I shall speak first about the main findings before turning to the current situation in the Palestinian Territories and our response to that.

Firstly, with regard to the performance of MEDA over the last  10  years, I am pleased about Parliaments positive appreciation of how this programme has contributed to realising the objectives of the Barcelona Declaration.
Further progress can and should still be achieved, but I share Parliaments view that the Barcelona Process remains the most appropriate framework for the Mediterranean policy.
This process is now supported by the Neighbourhood Policy which will help to develop bilateral relations and put into practice many of the aspirations of the Barcelona agenda.

In terms of effectiveness and thoroughness, the findings of Parliament and those of the Court of Auditors encourage the Commission to continue further improving its performance.
It is clear that we will also take into account the different suggestions from the two institutions.
I undertake to continue the efforts of the Commission in this regard, and we have already launched a final evaluation of the MEDA Regulation.
The results should be available in early  2008 .

All our efforts need to be seen in the context of the ongoing and progressive management improvements which have been introduced by the Commission since  2001 .
I entirely share Parliaments view on the issues of fostering greater social cohesion and sustainable economic development.
Equally, I share your willingness to pursue the objectives of the Barcelona Process as identified in the report.
We have taken numerous initiatives in this regard through thematic support, for instance in the areas of good governance, democracy and gender.
Lastly, as regards visibility, I have made a great personal priority of visibility, on which we are making progress.

Your report, Mrs KratsaTsagaropoulou, clearly analyses the strengths and weaknesses of the MEDA programme.
It acknowledges the improvements that have been achieved, but also points out where it is still necessary to make further progress.
The new ENPI regulation, in force since the beginning of this year, offers enormous new opportunities.
Therefore, we are looking forward to continued dialogue and your constructive support.

Turning to the current situation in the Palestinian Territories, we are more than ever at a critical juncture.
We are following the situation day to day, even hour to hour, and for the moment we are addressing the urgent needs and will probably have to continue doing so.
As our Council President said at the General Affairs and External Relations Council on Monday, we had a long and intensive discussion on the Middle East.
There was broad agreement on the need to support President Abbas and his new government led by Prime Minister Fayyad.
This has also been the line taken by the Quartet.

It has already been said that the EU will resume normal relations with this government immediately.
At the same time, we cannot abandon the humanitarian needs of the population in Gaza, and we will never let the Palestinian population down.

With regard to assistance, there was a strong wish to develop the conditions for urgent, practical and financial support.
That includes: extending the emergency relief under the Temporary International Mechanism for another three months, this time with the complete cooperation of Salam Fayyad; continuing humanitarian assistance, including to Gaza; exploring options to relaunch direct financial support, including the building of institutions; supporting the Palestinian civilian police through the resumption of the EUPOL COPPS; and hopefully resuming the EU Border Assistance Mission, EU BAM Rafah.

I made it clear to the Council and to Prime Minister Fayyad that resuming direct assistance to the Palestinian Authority implies certain technical conditions  that means controlling conditions  in terms of audit control and verification.
I can tell you that we are already in touch with Prime Minister Fayyad and his staff on how this can be achieved.
Indeed, a meeting took place yesterday with my head of delegation and the Prime Minister.

As a first step, we intend to pay EUR  22  million directly from a reserve to help towards clearing the arrears of the Palestinian Authority, particularly to the private sector so that it sees there is some movement.

The TIM will also continue for the moment to channel funds vital for the Palestinians in both an accountable and transparent way.
It will operate, as I say, in support of the Fayyad Government as of now.
In this regard, let me thank you and welcome the political agreement on the extra EUR  90  million for the TIM.
I also hope that the procedures for adoption can be accelerated.

As the PresidentinOffice of the Council has already said, the most important thing is that the withheld Palestinian funds, for which we have called so often on the Israelis to release, will hopefully finally be sent to the government of Mahmoud Abbas.

Finally, let me take this occasion to thank Parliament once again for its support, which has been, and will continue to be, essential.
Under the TIM, a European initiative, we have provided high levels of support reaching more than one million Palestinians  medicines, hospital supplies, fuel for essential public services, allowances both for the poor and the public sector.
That would not have been possible without your support, and now for the future we also need your support for all the items I have just mentioned.