This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Sarah Reid:

Mr President, I should like to thank Parliament for having supported the idea of an emergency procedure, and say how much the Commission appreciates the report by Mr Colino Salamanca.
I shall merely draw your attention to the principal issues, in particular who will assume responsibility for the operation, which regions are to benefit, and the aspects related to monitoring.

Given the scale of the operation, the Commission is firmly convinced that it cannot be administered by nongovernmental organisations, as usually happens for food aid.
The United States are of the same opinion as concerns their food aid programme.
Therefore the operation must inevitably be carried out under the auspices of the Russian Government.

As for the regions covered by the programme, the products will be distributed to the poorest regions and those worst affected by the shortages.
These include neither St Petersburg and the surrounding area, nor Moscow and its environs.
A total of some  40  regions are included in the food aid programme.
The large number of beneficiary regions will obviously make surveillance of the operation all the more complex.

With regard to monitoring, I would stress that the Commission is not able to exercise any control over the implementation of the programme within the Russian Federation; this has also been made clear at the General Affairs and Budget Councils, and again at yesterdays Agriculture Council.
In the Commissions opinion, it is impossible to maintain thorough surveillance over the programme in the more than  40  regions concerned, not only because of the vast geographical area involved but also because Russia is currently in a state of internal turmoil.
The distribution of food aid on Russian territory represents a highrisk operation, and no surveillance measures could entirely eliminate this risk.

The Commission has nevertheless taken note of the extremely firm stance adopted by the European Parliament and by several Member States in favour of incorporating surveillance measures into the programme, and has therefore made provision in the regulation for recourse to external technical assistance with monitoring, auditing, control and evaluation within the Russian Federation.
This arrangement has already been accepted by the Russian Government.

The other provisions on monitoring, originally contained in the memorandum of understanding, will however be more important than the external technical assistance.
First of all, the regions and areas benefiting under the programme are listed in the annex to the memorandum, with an indication of the products to be distributed to each of them.
The Russian Government is to reach an official decision, which will be made public, on this annex.

Consequently, the governors of all the regions will be able to check whether the exact quantities of each product earmarked for their region have been delivered.
Clearly, if that is not the case, protest mechanisms will be triggered.
Secondly, the products will be despatched in several consecutive batches.
Thirdly, the Russian Government will send monthly reports to the Commission on the implementation of the programme.
These reports will contain all necessary information about the progress of the operation, by product and region, as well as a statement on the management and use of the special account.
Fourthly, the European Court of Auditors is empowered to carry out audits in the Russian Federation concerning the food supply programme.

I would stress last of all that, should the Commission receive any information leading to reasonable doubt as to the proper implementation of the programme, it will be able to suspend the supply of aid.

I would conclude by stating that, in the Commissions opinion, the programme of food aid to Russia can be carried out under optimum conditions only if responsibility for the operation is shared by all the institutions, and if all the institutions realise from the outset  and before taking any decision whatsoever  that the programme is not free of risk.
We have done everything humanly possible to minimise such risks, but we cannot do so altogether.
On the other hand, nor can we sit back and refrain from assisting Russia for fear that the operation might misfire in some way.

Let me now review rapidly the amendments which the Commission is unfortunately not able to adopt.

Regarding Amendment No  1 , it has to be borne in mind that we, with the Russians, specify quantities to be delivered, which we have to respect.
The amounts to be expected are estimates by the Commission services based on standard values which can be higher than expected, especially considering transport under winter conditions.
A fixed maximum amount would risk, therefore, diminishing the quantities of the products to be delivered, which nobody wants.

As far as Amendment No  2  on the tender procedure is concerned, the only tender which is envisaged is one which designates the bodies or operators which will, on behalf of the Russian authorities, carry out the necessary work for taking over the transporting, processing and sending the goods to the final destinations.
This tender procedure has already been accomplished by the Russians for both the European Unions food aid action and those from the United States of America.

As far as the NGOs involvement in this operation is concerned, the Commission thinks that, due to the enormous size of the transactions, only professional operators which have the necessary infrastructure could accomplish this task effectively.

Regarding Amendments Nos  3  and  7 , among the specific conditions agreed in the MOU, reexports of the food aid deliveries as well as the exports of the same commodities produced in Russia or imported from any other third country are explicitly forbidden.
It seems to the Commission that underlining one of the conditions would weaken the others or risk giving them less importance.

As regards Amendment No  4 , it is clearly indicated in the regulation that the Commission shall call in outside technical assistance for monitoring, auditing, controlling and evaluating the proper conduct of the operation including on Russian territory.
To specify that this technical assistance should be provided by a technical assistance office will not strengthen the text but rather restrict the kind of external control organisms which could be involved.

As far as the amount allocated for this kind of technical assistance is concerned, the same remarks are valid here as for Amendment No  1 .

It is not necessary to put Amendment No  5  in the text as the Commission has already made available the draft memorandum of understanding to the European Parliament.
It is also clear that the Commission, in the framework of the early warning system, will give as usual all information to the budgetary authority concerning the execution of the operation.

Concerning Amendment No  6 , this provision is already in the memorandum of understanding and need not be repeated in the regulation.

Amendments Nos  8  and  9 : fisheries products were never mentioned by the Russians as products for which a shortage exists in Russia for the next winter.
Therefore the Commission cannot include these products in the current food aid programme.

Finally, regarding Amendment No  10 , there are a lot of needy people in the Russian Federation.
To specify each group or to highlight a specific one seems to us to be inappropriate.