This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Roger Jones:

Member of the Commission.
 Mr President, I understand Members concerns about the ACTA negotiations.

Let me first recall that we are negotiating this agreement in order to improve the protection of made in Europe innovation in all areas where intellectual property rights can be breached.
If we want to remain a competitive economy, we will have to rely on innovation, creativity and brand exclusivity.
That is one of our main competitive advantages on the world market.
So we need the tools to ensure that this competitive advantage is adequately protected in our main export markets.

We have tried to raise this issue for several years in multilateral organisations like the WTO or the World Intellectual Property Organisation.
Those attempts have been systematically blocked by other countries.
So, despite our preference for a truly global solution, we have had no other choice but to engage with a coalition of the willing.

The final agreement will only be binding on those countries that have signed, although we would of course be happy if more countries, and especially emerging economies, could subsequently join.

As I said during my hearing, those international negotiations are confidential.
That is not unusual.
Negotiations are about seeking an agreed outcome and require a minimum confidentiality in order for each party to feel comfortable to make concessions andor to try out options before finally settling on an agreement.

On the other hand, I agree that Parliament needs to be adequately informed about the evolution of the negotiations.
We are doing our utmost in two areas: to inform Parliament, and to convince our negotiating partners to agree to more transparency.
Firstly, as regards information to Parliament, we have provided you with the negotiating guidelines, full reports on the negotiating rounds and, in general, all the relevant documents originating from DG Trade that have been shared with the Member States through the Trade Policy Committee.
We have done this in accordance with the framework agreement.
Also, ACTA has been discussed several times in the Committee on International Trade in the last three years.

Let me add to this that the Commission organised two stakeholder conferences on ACTA in June  2008  and April  2009 , which were open to all citizens, industry, NGOs and the media.
Another public conference will be organised on  22  March in Brussels.

I understand that you may feel that this is not sufficient for you to have a clear picture on where we stand in these negotiations.
I have instructed my services to provided dedicated briefings with interested MEPs on all aspects of the negotiations.
They will be at your disposal for discussion before and after each further negotiating round.

Secondly, I realise that the best way for you to know what is going on in these negotiations would be to read the draft negotiating text.
This would give you a very clear picture of where exactly we are in those negotiations.
As you probably know, there is an agreement amongst ACTA parties that the negotiating text can only be made public if all parties agree.
The Commission is in favour of releasing the negotiating documents as soon as possible.
However, a few ACTA negotiating parties remain opposed to early release.
I strongly disagree with their approach but I cannot unilaterally breach a confidentiality commitment.
My credibility as a negotiator is at stake.

Nevertheless, I will see to it that, at the next negotiating round in April, the Commission vigorously pushes its negotiating partners to agree to releasing the text, and I will raise Parliaments concerns bilaterally with ACTA parties, like the US, whom I am scheduled to meet before then.
It is in the interests of all that everyone has a clear idea of what exactly these negotiations are about and even more importantly, also of what they are not about.

Finally, as regards your concerns on the substance, I would like to recall the main principles that are driving the Commission in the negotiation of this agreement.

First, the objective is to address largescale infringements of intellectual property rights which have a significant commercial impact.
It will not lead to the limitation of civil liberties or harassment of consumers.

Secondly, ACTA is only about enforcement of intellectual property rights.
It will not include provisions modifying substantive intellectual property law such as the creation of new rights, the scope of protection or duration.
However, it should set minimum rules on how innovators can enforce their rights in courts, at the borders or over the Internet.
For example, a European fashion designer, when confronted with counterfeiting of his creations outside Europe, can ensure that his rights are adequately safeguarded abroad.

Thirdly, ACTA must, and will, remain in line with the acquis communautaire, including the current level of harmonisation of IPR enforcement, the eCommerce Directive, the telecoms regulatory framework and, last but not least, the applicable EU legislation on data protection and piracy.
There will be no harmonisation or changes to EU legislation through the back door.

In this sense, ACTA will have no impact on European citizens, since it will not create new obligations for the EU and no need for implementing legislation.
However, it will provide our innovators increased protection in overseas markets.

I am aware of the concerns expressed by some of you about the introduction of a compulsory three strike rule or graduated response to fight copyright infringements and Internet piracy.
Let me be very clear on this so there is no room for ambiguity.
The three strike rule or graduated response systems are not compulsory in Europe.
Different EU countries have different approaches and we want to keep that flexibility while fully respecting fundamental rights, freedoms and civil liberties.
The EU does not support, and will not accept, ACTA creating an obligation to disconnect people from the Internet because of illegal downloads.

Similarly, we will make sure that ACTA does not hamper access to generic medicines.
I know there has been some controversy on the impact of EU customs legislation on trade in generic medicines.
As I have already told you at my hearing, that problem will be addressed in the upcoming revision of our customs legislation.

Finally, you also asked about an impact assessment on ACTA.
In fact, considering that the Commission will not go beyond the acquis communautaire, we took as our basis the studies made for the  2004  directive on the enforcement of intellectual property rights and for the  2005  Proposal for a directive on criminal enforcement of IPR (which was not adopted).

We also considered the conclusions of the  2008  OECD study on the economic impact of counterfeiting and piracy.
That study values the economy of physical internationally traded counterfeits at USD  250  billion, which is to say, more than the individual GDP of  150  countries.
It also contains an exhaustive analysis of the piracy of digital contents.

In short, I hear your concerns and will defend them to the best of my ability.
Your confidence and support will help me carry this important task forward.