This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Michael Bush:

Madam President, I should like to begin by congratulating the four rapporteurs, Mr Wynn, Mr Dankert, Mr Blak and Mr Bsch for their reports.
I want to address remarks to each of the players in the discharge procedure, first of all to Parliament.

Today is quite depressing.
What we have in this Parliament, which ought to be taking seriously its responsibilities for discharge, is in effect a meeting of the Budget Control Committee with a few other Members.
They are very welcome but there are far too few of them.
It is depressing to consider the speed at which Members of Parliament rush to propose amendments for additional expenditure to the budget but do not begin to take seriously their responsibility for controlling it in terms of either quality or quantity.
I hope that we can continue to hammer away internally at our own responsibilities.

Secondly, I want to say a few words to the Commission.
They are words of encouragement along the lines of Mr Wynns report; encouragement by supporting the work of SEM  2000 .
That is not just an encouragement in words.
There has been a very practical manifestation of encouragement from the very valuable work of Mr Colom i Naval in supporting the SEM  2000  process.
But of course in saying that to the Commission we are also acknowledging that there is a long way to go.
I want to reiterate in that long way ahead one or two of the things that were said last year and, in particular, remind Commissioner Liikanen about the commitment he made at this stage last year to the policies of greater concentration; what he last year called policies of critical mass , so that we actually have more coherent, more easily identifiable and more readily controlled policies.

I want also to say a couple of words to the Court of Auditors.
Another thing that depresses me this year was referred to by Mr FabreAubrespy, namely the statement of assurance.
I am not quite sure that is the correct use of language because it seems to be an abuse of language to call it a statement of assurance.
I am not sure it has not turned out to be a nonstatement of assurance or a statement of nonassurance.
But it certainly is not a statement of assurance.

What we are finding is that the message is getting confused.
We have seen a major argument between the Commission and the Court of Auditors about statistical methodology which is detracting from the whole value of the statement of assurance process.
I must say to both institutions: sort that statistical row out and assure us, assure the Member States, assure the citizens that we have an agreed basis for a statement of assurance where we can all have confidence in the methodology.
Unless we have it, in terms of the audit effort that is going into it, we are seriously wasting our resources.
We have to be assured that the statement of assurance is a document well worth having.

I turn briefly to the Council for the last quarter of this precious five minutes.
The Council and Parliament share a common language but I am not quite sure that we yet share a common philosophy.
We share a common language when we all genuflect to words like efficiency ,  sound financial management and proper budgetary discipline .
I can applaud the PresidentinOffice of the Council when he says all of those things.
I would value the words even more if I was assured that the effort made by the Council at high ministerial level for the recommendations of discharge equalled as that made in the Budgetary Control Committee.

Mr Wynn has pointed out that  80   of the expenditure goes to the Member States.
And yet it is the same Council that talks about efficiency and sound financial management that largely makes a mess of the agricultural regulations that make it possible for the fraud and irregularities to take place.
So I ask them, when they talk about Sound and Efficient Management  2000 , to not only say this to the Commission but to make sure it is put into practice in the administration of the  15  Member States who are controlling the  80  .

The very final point is to pick up one thing that Mr Dankert said about his aspiration for giving discharge to the Council.
I just reflect that if we had that power, this would be the year when we would be giving discharge to the Council for that Stalinist lookalike mausoleum known as the Council building, the one that they chose to build by designating it as compulsory expenditure.
That would have been a very interesting contribution to our discharge debate had Mr Dankerts aspiration been available to us retrospectively.