This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Frederic Jones:

Member of the Commission.
 Madam President, I am very grateful that I had such an early chance to participate in this exchange of views with you on the accession countries.
I promised during my hearing that I would come to listen and to take your advice, and todays debate was a clear proof of the richness, wisdom and insight that are assembled here in this House.

Let me make two general observations.
First, I take the promises I made during the hearings very seriously.
I am interested not in having two monologues, but in having a dialogue with this House which would reflect the true spirit of the Lisbon Treaty.

Let me also make another general observation, and I referred to this a couple of times during my hearing.
In talking to the candidate countries and the prospective candidate countries, I always underlined the following four principles.
The first is strict commitment to the Copenhagen criteria; they are nonnegotiable.
Secondly, a strict commitment to fundamental freedoms and rights, including religious and minority rights and, of course, womens rights.
Thirdly, the process being honest and reflecting credibility on both sides and at all levels.
Fourthly, I will never underestimate the issue of integration capacity.

On Croatia, both Parliaments resolution and the Commissions position underline that Croatia can count on Parliament and the Commission as reliable allies.
If the country manages to deliver on all outstanding conditions, I remain confident that accession negotiations can be concluded this year.
The Commission, and I trust the current and future presidencies as well as the European Parliament, will support Croatia in reaching its goal.

On the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, let me stress once again that the country earned a Commission recommendation to start accession negotiations on the basis of its own merits.
Nonetheless, the country continues to face many pressing challenges, including the political criteria.
As was pointed out during the debate, there is now a window of opportunity to resolve the name issue, and I am fully committed to supporting the ongoing talks.

On Turkey, we are all aware that we do not have an easy way ahead of us, either for Turkey or for the European Union, as was clearly stated by many during the debate.
I know, however, that the Turkish Government is still committed to the democratic opening.
Who would have imagined only five years ago Turkish society and politicians openly and intensively discussing the Kurdish issue, civilmilitary relations, the reopening of the Halki seminar or relations with Romania?

Nevertheless, I remain concerned about restrictions on press freedom and media pluralism.
Further legal amendments are needed to protect journalists, human rights activists and politicians from prosecution and conviction for the expression of nonviolent opinion.

As regards the accession negotiations, the opening of the important environment chapter last December is an encouraging development, bringing the number of open chapters to  12 .
I am hopeful that we will be able to open more chapters this year.
However, Turkey will need to make additional efforts in order to be able to fulfil the demanding benchmarks.
It is therefore important that the necessary preparations are being continued with rigour.

The Commission also welcomes the reinforced dialogue with Turkey on migration, which should lead to concrete achievements, in particular, as regards readmission and border controls.
In response to a specific question from one of your colleagues, let me say that the Commission is aware of the recent developments concerning Turkish lifting of visa requirements for Lebanon and Syria.
The Commissions DirectorGeneral responsible for these issues will be in Ankara next week for talks.
This will be one of the issues he will discuss on that occasion and I will report on these discussions.

Let me also add, having been requested, the following position of the Commission.
All measures that the Commission has proposed and undertaken have always been aimed at ending the isolation of the TurkishCypriot community as a means of facilitating the reunification of Cyprus in line with the Council conclusions of April  2004 .
We are implementing the EUR  259  million aid package for the sustainable social and economic development of the TurkishCypriot community and its full participation in the European Union following a settlement and reunification.
The Green Line Regulation is facilitating economic and personal contacts between TurkishCypriots and GreekCypriots.
The Trade Regulation, on special conditions for trade for the TurkishCypriot community, remains with the Council for consideration.

Coming back to Turkey, the reform process is to continue and the European Union should continue to encourage the process and progress.
The Commission remains committed to the accession process with Turkey.
Our leverage and influence in Turkey will become all the more credible and stronger if our commitments remain unambiguous.

I am looking forward to a very fruitful and close cooperation over the next five years.

(Applause)