This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Victor Finlayson:

rapporteur.
 Mr President, I would like to make five points about our report on integration capacity.
I will start by thanking all those colleagues involved in the process and certainly those in the secretariat who did a wonderful job.

My first point is about the terminology we are using today.
The original term which we dealt with was absorption capacity.
When we were discussing who was going to do this report, I talked to Mr Absorption himself  my good friend Mr Brok.
We came to the conclusion that perhaps absorption is not the best term to use.
I think Mr Karl Bild put it very well when he said: who wants to be absorbed by the European Union?
Does France want to be absorbed by the European Union?
Of course the answer is no.
So we went for a more dynamic, more positive term and decided that integration capacity is really what we are looking at.

My second point is that this is potentially a sensitive subject because there are many interests.
My colleague and friend Mr Brok made reference to some of them.
In other words you have those types of people who are against enlargement but for the Constitution.
You have those who are against the Constitution but for enlargement.
Then you have those like me who are for the Constitution and for enlargement, and then there are the likes of Mr Farage and the rest who are against both.

What we tried to do was swim through these four types of interest and I think we have done it fairly well in this report.
The notion of integration capacity is nothing really new.
We have always had it.
There is always a debate before each and every enlargement about how much the European Union should deepen.
Before  1973  the Union became a customs union.
Before  1986  the Single European Act was put forward.
Before the FinnishAustrianSwedish accession you had the Maastricht Treaty.
Before the big bang in  2004  you had Amsterdam and Nice.
What we want is to have a constitution before the next enlargement.

Thirdly, how do we define integration capacity?
I think the conclusion of this report is that you can give a vague notion of what it actually means and you could say that it is not a condition for enlargement, but it is a criterion for us, the current Member States.
We have to put our house in order before we are able to enlarge.
The difficulty is that you cannot give integration capacity a strict definition because it is linked to two things.
One: the time of accession.
Two: the number of new states coming in.
In other words, enlargement in  1973  was radically different to enlargement in  2004 .
Still on the definition, integration capacity is about three things: institutions, budget and policies.

My fourth point is about the public debate, and here I would like to point the finger at the European Council, which is saying that we need to link enlargement to public opinion.
We say yes, of course you have to do that, but do not tell me that you do not have the opportunity to do it.
Enlargement negotiations are opened through unanimity.
Each chapter is opened with unanimity.
Each chapter is closed with unanimity.
The whole package is approved by unanimity, and on top of that each Member State is supposed to ratify accession.
If within those two to ten years you are not able to explain the benefits of enlargement to the general public I think you are miserably failing in your job, so please do your job and then come and start talking about public opinion.
We need more strategic thinking on enlargement.

My final point is about the Constitution.
This report outlines a number of issues which we desperately need to clarify before the next enlargement: qualified majority voting, legal personality, the foreign minister, common security policy, etc.
These are issues that we badly need to deal with before we can enlarge.
The message from this report is: let us get that house in order before  2009  and then start enlarging.

I shall finish with this.
Enlargement is probably the best policy the European Union has ever had.
It has brought with it peace, prosperity, security and stability.
When we talk about enlargement let us not give poor excuses because we know that we are never and yet always ready to enlarge.

(Applause)