This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Claire Merx:

Mr President, I shall be speaking in general terms about my groups position.
Several later speakers will go into more detail.
I would begin in the usual way by thanking the rapporteurs, Mrs Dhrkop Dhrkop, Mr Viola and certainly Mr Giansily as well.
His report has been supported by our group with the small amendments which occurred in committee.
In the light of the PresidentinOffices remarks that we are not quite as much in tune with things as the Council, I have to say that in July the Council made known its decisions: one of the problems in July was that we did not have a dialogue on the PDB because all the time in conciliation was spent on the legal base.
So it is a great pity that we did not have the discussions we should have had.
By the same token, we have not had the ad hoc procedure which we should have had.
This is a breakdown in communications between our two institutions and it needs to be rectified next year.

Having said that, I thank the PresidentinOffice for the work he has done on the legal base.
It was appreciated.
It has helped to establish next years budget, certainly in Categories  3  and  4 .
We consider it to be a prudent budget; we consider it to be a reasonable budget.
We have tried to make reductions where we think they are necessary.
The problem for the Council is the strategic reserve, the bridging budget that Mrs Dhrkop Dhrkop has spoken about.
We are going to leave no margin.
As you know it is our insurance policy, as the Commission has said.
It is our guarantee because if we do not get an interinstitutional agreement we have to have a fallback position.

Let us be clear: Agenda  2000  depends on the financial perspective.
The financial perspective depends on an interinstitutional agreement.
From our side of the House we want to see an interinstitutional agreement but if we cannot come to a conclusion on that then, make no mistake, we will go back to Article  203 .
But to have Article  203  we need the finances for future years.
As the Commissioner said, if we adopt that strategy the Commission will have to call on own resources from the Member States earlier in the year.
There is a way round that which the Council should be discussing.
That was mentioned by Mr Samland in one of our discussions: namely, we need to get an agreement between our institutions before the end of the year which says that if there is no interinstitutional agreement, the basis for Article  203  in the future will be the maximum amount of spend for the year  1999 .
If the Council could take that on board it might solve some of the problems which Member States have.
I know they have these problems because they keep contacting us on this side of the House.
We now have more socialist governments than ever and they keep contacting us to say it is not a good idea.
We have to explain the strategy to them time and time again.

I turn now to the different areas.
Mrs Dhrkop Dhrkop has covered Categories  1  and  2 .
I would like to add the part that the peace programme funded by the European Union has played in Northern Ireland.
Parliament and the Council  and the Union in general  have something to be quite proud of with the role that money has played.
John Hume was instrumental in making sure that each year we had a case to make for that.
Let us add our congratulations to those the PresidentinOffice extended to John Hume.

On Category  3 , one of the reasons why things have been so easy is because the legal base solved a lot of our problems.
The recommendations made by the rapporteur on the pilot programmes and on the preparatory actions have taken a lot out of the debate.
We have not been arguing over small lines.
I was quite surprised how easily we came to a conclusion on those amounts of money for the pilot programmes etc.
The vast majority of actions on the lines that have disappeared have been placed elsewhere on other lines.
So, all in all, between the Commission, Council and the rapporteur, a decent job has been done in getting over the problem of the legal base.
Hopefully that has now been solved and we can move on in the future to have a better basis for the budget.

On the Fifth Framework Programme we are still looking for a solution.
While the Committee on Budgets voted the PDB, it may at the end of the day be far too big.
If we get an agreement in which it is less than the PDB  and if we are realistic, it probably will be  if, in second reading, we then reduce that figure we may have a gap and that affects our strategy for the bridging budget.
One thing that crosses my mind  and it has not been discussed in our group  is that we may have to frontload the Fifth Framework Programme in the  1999  budget to make sure that the margin is kept to an absolute minimum.

Concerning Category  4 , I should first like to mention Turkey.
The vote in committee was straightforward.
It is a token entry on the line and ECU  50 m in reserve.
But there is no legal base for that line.
Whilst we voted for that in the committee because we consider it to be a political statement rather than a common sense action to vote out the line, we went along with it.
Since then our group has discussed the matter and our approach would be not to support that line; not to support the ECU  50 m in reserve even, because there is no legal base.
Our problem is how to do it because there are no amendments to scrap the line.
If we can get a split vote, that is what we on this side of the House will do when it comes to the line on Turkey.

On ECHO, in committee we voted against the money going in reserve and we stand by that position.
Regardless of the statements made elsewhere about the pressure being put on the Commission, we have to say the work done by Mr Liikanen and Mrs Gradin in trying to get this problem solved has actually gone unnoticed in many areas.
We want to pay tribute to the work they have done.
We thought it was wrong to put the money for humanitarian aid in reserve under threat for next year  we were penalising the people who needed those resources.
I could understand it if we were going to put the expenses of the Commissioners involved  or even the salaries of the people involved  in reserve, but we did not.
My group and I consider that putting actual humanitarian aid in reserve is the wrong thing to do.
We will therefore be voting against that amendment and if we vote against it, it will not get  314  votes and consequently the money will go back on the line.

Also in category  4  there are two items which Mr Cunningham mentioned, and others will mention, which have given cause for concern: one is tropical forests and the other is the line on antipersonnel mines.
I should like to explain why we voted the way we did.
On tropical forests it has been ECU  50  million for the last two, if not three, years.
Each year the Notenboom procedure takes money which is unspent from that line.
This year the Notenboom procedure will be taking ECU  11  million from the tropical forest line.
That is why our group has voted for the ECU  40  million.

A similar thing has happened with the antipersonnel mines.
We went along with the reduction proposed by the rapporteur because there are many other lines which have the facility for demining those areas which cause a danger to personnel in those areas.
We have agreed with the rapporteur in the resolution that we should get some concrete statements from the Commission on both these areas.
What is the situation with tropical forests?
Does it need ECU  50  million or does it need ECU  40  million?
On the antipersonnel mines, do we really need a plethora of lines for this action or can it be concentrated in one area?
The Commission would help tremendously if we could get some clarification on that.

Still in category  4 , we have a problem with bananas.
We have always had a problem with bananas.
The Treaty of Rome was held up for  24  hours before it was signed because of bananas.
The final GATT round was not concluded until the EU had finalised its agreement on bananas.
We have problems even in our group about this.
The reality is that the majority of our group will be voting against the amendment which will put the money on the line.
This is an area where there is a lot of confusion and once again the Commission could help if they could clarify the difference between the spends in category  4  on this and the spends in the EDF and why it has to be done in one and not the other.

On Mr Violas report, most things can go through smoothly.
The one thing that will not go through smoothly on Thursday is the Members allowances and the Statute.
Our group was split on the vote last night and I am sure our group will be split on the vote on Thursday.
I will state now that the Socialist Group does not have a definitive position.
Whilst we discussed and voted on it last week, I am sure that position will change come Thursday.
I am sure you will see hands going up in several directions on the various votes that appear next week.

Finally, Mr President, the Court of Justice.
We voted against an increase in personnel there because we are being consistent.
All the political groups have had a policy of no increases in personnel in all the institutions, and that should also apply to the Court of Justice.