This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Helen Bush:

Member of the Commission.
 Mr President, I would like to start by thanking Parliament for having included the new strategy for the Baltic Sea region on the agenda of its plenary session.

The high visibility this provides for the strategy is extremely welcome.
Of course, it is not a complete surprise to me that Parliament is taking such an interest in the strategy.
The pioneering work undertaken by Parliament through its Baltic Interparliamentary Group in particular was very much one of the catalysts for the whole macroregional strategy approach.

The Baltic Sea Strategy has required a completely new approach from the European Commission as it is the first time that we have prepared an integrated strategy for a group of Member States who have to face the same challenges and who may benefit from the same opportunities.
I will not hide the fact that the preparatory work has brought challenges of its own, but these have been overcome successfully.

The four pillars of the strategy provide an overarching framework for improving the overall situation of the Baltic Sea region.
By addressing the environment, the economy, energy and transport and safety and security issues, the strategy provides an integrated approach covering several policy areas while ensuring close interaction among the fields concerned.

Since the Commission adopted the strategy in June, the Swedish Presidency has led positive and constructive discussions in Council which are to lead to conclusions already in October.
This rapid progress is important if we are to maintain momentum as we enter the implementation phase of the strategy.

I would like to underline this point as it must be clear that all our preparatory work on the strategic framework that I have just described will count for nought unless we start to deliver genuine visible concrete results on the ground, hence the importance of the strategys action plan which has also been drawn up during the preparatory work.

The implementation of an action plan will require real cooperation, commitment and leadership from Member States and regional stakeholders to deliver the  80  or so projects included at this stage.
In financial terms, although there is no additional financing from the EU budget, the strategy proposes a more coordinated use of existing funds and a more imaginative approach to other funding sources such as the European Investment Bank or the Nordic Investment Bank.

I would now like to say a few words about the planned governance system which is proposed for the operational implementation of the strategy.
This is one area where there has been much discussion among the Member States, but the overall approach is that policy orientations will be taken by the Council.
The coordination monitoring and reporting is done by the Commission and the implementation on the ground is led by the Member States or organisations of the Baltic Sea Region.

In addition, the Commission proposes to play the role of a facilitator in the case of difficulties.
However, I would stress that the Commission has neither the capacity nor the desire to lead the delivery of the action plan itself.

Responsibility must rest with the relevant Member States and other stakeholders directly involved on the ground.
This is the only way to ensure that the ownership of a strategy is in the hands of the Member States and other stakeholders.

So what are the next steps?
Once we have conclusions from the Council and the European Council, we will take forward the implementation phase of the strategy.
Here we expect to see a wave of coordination meetings to kickstart the various priority areas and individual projects included in the action plan.

The first formal assessment of progress made will be presented under the Polish Presidency in the second half of  2011 .
However, prior to that, the first annual forum of the Baltic Sea Strategy will take place next year.
This will give all stakeholders an opportunity to consider how the first months of the strategy have gone and what lessons might already be drawn at that stage.

I would like to conclude by saying that I look forward to continuing to work closely with Parliament on all aspects of strategy.
The Commission very much expects Parliament to be actively involved in events such as the annual forum.
Your backing is crucial to maintain widespread visibility for the strategy to maintain highlevel political support for the strategy and to maintain pressure on the Member States and the regional actors to deliver results.