This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by James Smith:

Mr President, it is not in any sense part of my job this morning to answer comments made by previous speakers.
However, just in parenthesis, I will make the point, following on what my colleague, Karl von Wogau, has just said, that the question of the United Kingdoms relationships with the European Monetary System and exchange rates is, of course, one for markets and not for governments.
But that is a matter which I am sure we will discuss endlessly in the coming months.

I speak this morning as the rapporteur on the annual economic report and part of the responsibilities that go with that rapporteurship is producing a report on the broad economic guidelines.

My first suggestion, addressed to the Commission  and I promise the Commission that this will be my last criticism of it  is that it would be most helpful in future if the Commission could contrive to produce its annual economic report and its broad economic guidelines in sufficient time for the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment because these two projects are the joint responsibility of those two committees.
It would be helpful in future years if we could have the broad economic guidelines a bit earlier, because the trouble this time is that we have had to rush to conclusions because of the deadline at the end of this week of the  21  and  22  June meeting in Florence.
This has meant that we have not really had time in the Economic Committee to produce a report debated in committee, adopt amendments in committee and then present to this House a report that is properly balanced in the way in which the three previous reports are balanced and reflect consensus in the committee.

The compromise resolution, which we shall be voting on later today, is therefore unsatisfactory in some respects, but that is an inevitable part of having a compromise.
Compromises, by definition, do not satisfy everyone and we would say that the joint resolution is all right up to a point but we shall be tabling a number of amendments to it.
One is to remove the Commission from the line of fire of criticism, because you will have noticed that our resolution is somewhat critical of both the Commission and the Council.
But we believe that at this stage it is too late to criticize the Commission.

We shall also be tabling amendments on matters which we feel very strongly about and which, indeed, are in our question to the Council, because at the moment there is no reference in the final resolution to the need for the Member States to analyse the best practice in Member States and, in parenthesis, the United States, in order to identify the policies which can achieve results in bringing down unemployment rapidly.
This is something which the committee as a whole felt strongly about in the resolution on the annual economic report and it is a significant omission that it is not in the resolution to wind up this debate.
I hope that the House will agree to incorporate this point and that the House will also agree to the addition that the Member States should create an environment where employers are encouraged to take on workers.
It is not part of my job to anticipate what the speakers on behalf of the Social Affairs Committee may say on that matter, but it is very clear, with the high level of unemployment in the European Union, that it is unacceptable that there should be something like  18  million unemployed in our society, with  50  million living in poverty or in near poverty.

Coming to the substance of what the debate this morning is all about, this is actually the European Parliaments opportunity to put forward its views to the European Council which meets in Florence at the end of this week.
You will find in our resolution something to the effect that our President should take this resolution to Florence.

The other important point is paragraph  11  of our resolution which calls upon the Irish presidency to report very quickly back to this House on what action is going to be taken by the Member States on the broad economic guidelines.
I do not know whether there is a representative of the Irish presidency here but, if not, perhaps the representative of the Italian presidency would be kind enough to pass on that message and a copy of our resolution.