This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Christoph Whittacker:

High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security PolicyVicePresident of the Commission.
 Mr President, honourable Members, this is an important opportunity to raise the situation in Iran.

The European Union wants normal relations with Iran, and our efforts on the nuclear issue are part of that.
In this context, I will continue, in my capacity as High Representative, the role of my predecessor, Javier Solana, in the international talks with Iran.

Iran is an important country with a deep history and rich culture, and a remarkably talented population.
The films and books coming out of Iran are impressive, the level of education of women is high, there is a capacity for public debate and the young population is vibrant and active.
In many ways, Iranian society has the hallmarks and the capacity of a free society.
The threat to the society has been reflected in the turmoil that followed what many in Iran saw as a fraudulent election last year.
That, of course, is a matter for the Iranians.
Our concern is that international norms and standards on civil and political rights must be respected.

In this respect, I am deeply concerned over the reports of violent suppression of demonstrations and arbitrary detentions in Tehran and other Iranian cities during the recent Ashura commemorations at the end of December.
The use of violence against demonstrators seeking to exercise their freedom of expression and rights of assembly is not acceptable.
These are universal human rights that must be respected and those detained for peacefully exercising those rights should be released.

I also note with deep concern that many arrests seem to have targeted human rights defenders and journalists, and that many detained are denied access to legal representation and contact with their families.
Iran must live up to its international obligations and treat detained persons in accordance with international human rights standards.

Another recent issue is the detention of another  12  members of the Bahai religious community.
These people must be assured a just, open and fair trial in accordance with international standards.

The EU has spared no opportunity to ask the Iranian Government to respect those international obligations which they freely and voluntarily adhered to.
We issue public statements and use other diplomatic means.
We work through the United Nations: the General Assembly adopted a resolution condemning the situation only last month.
We will make full use of the upcoming review of Iran which will be held at the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva in early February.

On the nuclear issue, we regret that Tehran has not followed up on the last meeting between Javier Solana and Jalili, the chief negotiator, on  1  October in Geneva.
We all assessed that the meeting was positive.
But, in effect, Iran has now rejected a draft agreement proposed by the IAEA and has been refusing to pursue talks on the nuclear issue.

The EU and its negotiating partners are all committed to finding a diplomatic solution to the Iranian nuclear issue, and to that end, we must continue to implement the dualtrack approach.
We need a serious engagement in meaningful talks from Tehrans side.

Our objective remains to build confidence that the nuclear programme is exclusively for peaceful purposes.
The confidence deficit was further increased by the revelation that Iran has been building another enrichment facility without informing the IAEA in due time.
In addition, Iran continues not to cooperate fully with the IAEA and not to respect its international obligations.

It is vital that the EU and the international community stand united behind the negotiating effort, including by supporting that effort through appropriate measures.
The widest possible unity is key if we are to achieve our objective.

If Iran sets out on a more constructive course on the nuclear issue and on regional stability in general, it could play an important role in the Middle East and Gulf region, which would reflect its rightful place and proud history.

In conclusion, the challenges posed by Iran weigh very heavy in my portfolio.
This is a country which has enormous potential  and our readiness to engage with Iran constructively has been made over and over.
I shall continue to make that case.
I sincerely hope that, during the time of my mandate, I will return to this House with a more positive picture of relations with Iran.