This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Roger Reid:

Mr President, there is no doubt that we are voting a very important report tonight that will become a major piece of legislation.
It affects a major developing industry within the Community but at the same time raises a series of major concerns to the general public that must be addressed.
I have tried in this report to strike the right balance between the protection of public health, the environment, the rights of the consumer and the needs of that developing industry which has so much to give if we allow it to do so in the right way.

We have already successfully taken the report through the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
We have since then made efforts to find an even greater degree of agreement of the different parties involved so that we can find a proposal which we hope will be acceptable to the Commission as well.

There are many key points in the report.
I should just like to outline some of them just now.
First of all, we have introduced in the text an additional obligation on Member States in the Commission to adopt the precautionary principle and ensure that we avoid any adverse effects on human health and the environment whenever a GMO of whatever kind is released into the environment.

In the case of GMOs placed on the market, we must also be sure that they can be identified and tracked.
We have tried to do that with some of our amendments; that the authorisation for release contains descriptive methods of identification and that a public register is kept of those methods so that we know where they are going, we know what they are doing.
The monitoring requirements that we have installed in the proposal should help us to do this.

A concern that has been expressed by many people is that we have a problem with export of GMOs and a responsibility, indeed, when these GMOs go to third counties that may not have the capacity to deal with them in the way that the Union has.
So we have introduced the principle of prior and formal consent.

Many concerns have been expressed by people across Europe about the ethical implications of genetically modified organisms that might shortly come onto the marketplace  even perhaps genetically modified animals.
In that situation we have a right to consult an ethical committee.
We are looking for the fullest consultation of the ethical committee on matters of principle.
I am sure that will assist in the future introduction of GMOs that may present certain difficulties.

Any producer must accept that when they put a product on the marketplace they have to accept liability.
Liability is an issue here just as it is for any other type of product.
We are proposing a form of liability which is reasonable, comprehensive and no different from that suggested for other products.

We recognise that the long term implications of these products may indeed be such that there will be substantial socioeconomic effects.
While we may not wish to address each of these issues, application by application, we have to consider these.
We have installed a suitable amendment in the proposal to ensure that these are taken into account in an appropriate way.There are a number of other substantial improvements to the text in a technical sense.
In the annexes we have worked very hard to improve the technical requirements and the definitions of the risk assessment.
But equally we have looked very carefully at how we can control these products on the marketplace.
While the Commission already has in its existing proposal the possibility to withdraw a product from the marketplace should it appear to present a serious risk to human health or any other risk, the Commissions proposal suggests that there should be a timelimited approval.

We are not against the idea of a timelimited approval.
It is a sensible method of making progress, stepbystep.
But one has to ask, when you consider the range of different products, what is the appropriate timescale for a timelimited approval?
Is it three years, is it five years, as some of our Green colleagues proposed in committee; is it seven years, as the Commission is proposing; is it twelve years as the Council is proposing; or is it an unlimited approval as some Members of Parliament would want?

We have to accept that at this stage, in order to build public trust and confidence, there has to be a timelimited approval in order that any product which is found to be unsatisfactory can be properly withdrawn after due consideration.

I am not sure about the number.
There is no magic number when it comes to the length of time.
The Commission proposes seven years.
I should be very interested to hear from the Commissioner why she thinks seven is the very best number of years  perhaps it is her lucky number.
Are we going to suggest that it is twelve?
Twelve would appear to be adequate on this technical question.