This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Mary LaCourt:

Mr President, Commissioner, it has been a long road to the final decision on the European Communitys fifth framework programme for research, technological development and demonstration.
Today I can tell you that although there was an initial protest about this programme, the Committee on Fisheries can accept the result of the conciliation procedure despite a general disagreement on funding and possible deficiencies with regard to content.
But I would like to explain to you why we shall be following its implementation very carefully.

In its opinion on the proposed fifth framework research programme, the Committee on Fisheries described the research needs of the Quality of life and fisheries and aquaculture sector.
It noted that, in contrast to the fourth framework research programme, the proposal does not contain a programme solely devoted to fisheries.
The design of the new framework programme means that fisheries interests will have to compete with other research interests in several programmes and key actions.
That does not make things any easier for fisheries.

Moreover, a solution also needs to be found for the future funding of activities relating to fisheries, which have so far been defined as studies and kept outside the research programmes.
These activities include the collection of basic data for stock assessments, which have so far been funded through the Structural Funds.
The Committee on Fisheries stresses the need to avoid any risk of interruption in the funding of the very important activities concerned, and the need to extend support for such activities to the aquaculture sector.

We have heard that in accordance with Article  130 i, the framework programme will be implemented through individual specific programmes, in turn consisting of key actions as they are known, or work programmes.
The first specific programme, called management of living resources thus covers many key actions of relevance for the fisheries and aquaculture sector.
The most important of these is Sustainable agriculture, fisheries and forestry, including the integrated development of rural areas.
The priorities for research, technological development and demonstration in fisheries and aquaculture have been defined in such a way that most of the relevant research needs should be covered.

The key action Health, food and environmental factors is absolutely relevant here, and the key action Control of infectious diseases provides a natural framework for research on prevention and control of fish diseases within aquaculture, since it has now emerged that this key action will not be limited to human diseases.
The key action The cell factory could possibly also be of some interest to the aquaculture sector because of the genetical problems that may arise there.
That is all I have to say on the first specific programme.

The second and third programmes are not very relevant for fisheries and aquaculture, so let me move directly on to the fourth thematic programme, Preserving the ecosystem.
This programme is of the greatest importance to fisheries and aquaculture, especially in the attempts at what is known as the conceptualizing an ecosystem approach to fisheries management, because understanding how environmental changes may affect the marine ecosystems upon which fisheries and aquaculture depend is extremely important.
Up to now we have always complained that the current state of knowledge rarely permits forecasting of concrete effects on fish stocks or predictions of the consequences of a troubled ecosystem for the fishing industry.
The other specific programmes predominantly concern amongst other things the need for international cooperation with third countries in the Mediterranean region, as well as Russia, the USA and Canada.
It is a subject that we will be increasingly preoccupied with in the fisheries sector as we search for new resources.

The Committee on Fisheries has clearly defined the contents and affirmed their importance.
We look forward to their realisation.
We have heard about the growing demands that are being placed on the framework programme, and in view of these each penny of the amount had to be fought for.
Of course this was tiring at times, but it was worth it.
My thanks to all those who were involved.
We are also very relieved that with the framework programme, an important part of employment policy that we have all been waiting for is to be implemented.
In a modern Europe we ought never to neglect the field of research.
It is often the true beginning of all things.
Of course this also has to be reflected in our budget.
