This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Lynne McNabb:

Mr President, I should like to thank the Council and the Commission for their presentations this morning.
I shall concentrate on the broad economic guidelines.
The Socialist Group firmly rejects the guidelines adopted by the ECOFIN Council recently and we are deeply unhappy with the approach taken by the Commission regarding the economic prospects for the European Union.

The first point is to look at the economic fundamentals which the Commission claims are favourable.
We have historically high levels of unemployment.
Some  50  million people in the European Union are suffering social exclusion and poverty.
Internal demand in the EU is depressed because of the attack on social protection and jobs.
Real wages are stagnant.
Business confidence fell again last month for the seventeenth month in a row and there is a collapse of consumer confidence.
Public investment has fallen over the last ten years from  3 . 5   of GDP to  2 . 5  .

If the Commission and the Council claim these are favourable economic fundamentals I would like to see the statistics they are basing this on.
Clearly Europe is in crisis and we need coordinated measures by the Commission and ECOFIN to try to bring Europe out of that crisis.
The growth rate this year is  1 . 5  , which I imagine will be estimated as even lower by the end of the year.
There may be a growth rate of  2  or  2 . 5   next year.
It is completely insufficient.

That is why we have produced a very critical report on these guidelines.
In particular, I want to refer to the guidelines as approved by the Council.
Mr De Silguy did not refer to the way in which the guidelines were changed by the Council and I should like the Council and Mr De Silguy to deal specifically with the changes that have been made to those guidelines by the ECOFIN Council.
I hope the Council is listening carefully to this.
There are ten cases where the Council has deleted points from the Commissions guidelines, which Parliament was already unhappy with.

Why did the Council delete the reference to a better economic policy mix more favourable to growth?
The ECOFIN Council deleted this.
I want to know why.
The reference to the European Parliaments opinion on the economic annual report was deleted by ECOFIN.
Why did it delete that?
A durable detente in macroeconomic policy is essential to relaunch activity and strengthen growth in job creation in the medium term.
Again, in the Commission text, the Council deleted that reference.
Why did it do that?
Monetary policy can, within the spirit of Article  105  of the Treaty, contribute in a substantial manner to the achievement of Community objectives as laid down in Article  2  of the Treaty.
That reference was deleted.
Why?
The Council has to explain to the House why it made these changes.

The Commission text referred to the social partners and to the dialogue that exists.
The Council deleted the reference to an efficient coordination between the different actors concerned and between countries as essential to ensure the coherence of these policies.
That reference was deleted and we want to know why.
It deleted the reference to the fact that measures aimed at improving convergence go hand in hand with the promotion of growth and employment in the medium term.
Why did the Council delete that from the broad economic guidelines?
In relation to TENs  the transEuropean networks  the statement proposed in the Commission text, that action has to be taken to remove the last obstacles to the achievements of the TENs projects is deleted in the Council text.

The ECOFIN Council is acting with extreme arrogance if it believes it can simply disregard growth and employment in the European Union.
We were deeply unhappy in this House with the Commission text but at least it made some effort to refer to the need to bring unemployment down and to deal with the appalling levels of growth.
The Council text is completely unacceptable to this House.
If the Council would look at paragraph  10  of the resolution that we will vote at lunchtime today it will see that we insist that in Florence these deletions from the Commission text be reinserted, and that is the text which should then be endorsed by the Council.

Unless that happens I warn the Council that whether it be the Italian presidency winding up to their presidency in July or Mr Spring or Mr Bruton presenting the programme of the Irish presidency, this Parliament will roundly reject the conclusions of Florence, unless the Council gives a real commitment to bringing unemployment down, getting growth back to Europe and ensuring that the EMU project can continue on a path that will mean something to the citizens rather than simply being something which is pursued by central bankers.

(Applause from the left)