This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by James Merx:

Mr President, the events of the past week have revealed, perhaps for the first time ever, an expression of panEuropean public opinion.
And if we ever needed a demonstration of the suspicion with which, sadly, the public across virtually all our Member States view the European Union institutions, we saw it in the collective sigh of relief and even, unfortunately, celebration which could be heard after the resignation of the European Commission.

It is important to state at the outset that the resignation of the Commission last Monday was not because the experts had found the twenty Commissioners guilty of personal fraud.
In fact, the opposite was the case.
They explicitly cleared the twenty of such accusations and allegations.
As far as nepotism is concerned, it found only one Commissioner overwhelmingly guilty of favouritism with regard to work which was not within the European remit of the Commissioner.
It criticised certainly two others for poor judgement in employing friends or relatives whilst acknowledging that the correct procedures for recruitment had been followed, and the work they had been engaged in had been of a European nature.

We should also be clear that accusations which were being bandied about in this House in December and January against other Commissioners, were overwhelmingly and largely dismissed.
It is important that this House is grown up enough to recognise that fact.

However, the report was decisive in its conclusions regarding the loss of control of management by this European Commission; and it was right and proper that in the light of the conclusions the College took the decision to resign.

My group now expects the independent group of experts to complete the second part of its report on the structure of the European Commission.
I give notice that I am concerned about voices I hear arguing that the group of experts have now done their job and should stand down.
I want to caution against those voices.
I am suspicious of their motives and their backing.
I believe that it could be very convenient for some if the independent group of experts were to be prevented from delving in the required detail into the workings of different DirectorateGenerals.
I therefore ask this House to make sure that the group is given the space to work and that the SecretaryGeneral of the European Commission be asked to ensure that his officials at every level cooperate to the maximum to facilitate the report.

In my groups view the second report must contain a more widelyranging review of the Commissions culture, practices and procedures.
We want it to deal, amongst other issues, with how financial contracts are awarded and the procedures for contracts for interim or temporary staff to implement programmes, and to follow up allegations of fraud, mismanagement and nepotism involving staff.
The group of experts is not in danger of removing or, in fact, countermanding in some way the powers of this House.
To believe that, is to demonstrate a lack of confidence in our work.

This report and the one which will follow, is about something quite different.
It is a procedure and process that is not unknown in any of our countries, in order to look from time to time at the culture which permeates administrations and executives in each country.
Now is time to look to the future.

The European Commission is not in the habit of resigning.
This is, after all, the first time in our fortytwo year history that such a thing has happened.
If we are to demonstrate that the European Union can be different; if we are to respond to the opportunity of this moment, then we must call on the Heads of State and Government meeting in Berlin on Wednesday this week to designate immediately their nominee for President of the Commission.
It is quite unthinkable that the European Commission, having resigned, should quietly continue with business as usual until the end of their mandate.

We want not just the President of the Commission replaced, but a new Commission in place with speed, properly ratified by this Parliament, using the powers which will be given to us in the incoming Amsterdam Treaty.

Given this background, the European Council should put forward an experienced, competent candidate committed to indepth reform, with a clear vision as to where he or she is going, with a programme to get there and credentials which are beyond reproach.
What is clear, is that the new President of the Commission must assume not just the political responsibility for the Commission, but the political leadership as well.

This Parliament must also recognise the exceptional nature of this moment.
We must not allow ourselves to engage in a constitutional or institutional debate about dry procedures and put up bureaucratic obstruction to change, and rapid change at that.
The impact on European public opinion, if the European Council and the European Parliament were to come together to put in place a new Commission able to demonstrate its commitment to serving the people of Europe, would be instrumental in rejuvenating the vision of Europe.

Colleagues, our responsibility now is to address three principles to the Council.
Firstly, we want immediate action to show we have grasped the moment; and we hope that the Council will accept the opportunity which the European Parliament has provided through the work of the independent group of experts.
The first principle is immediate action.
The second principle must be to insist on the use of the Amsterdam Treaty, whether it is formally in being or not as the way in which this Parliament will use our powers to ratify the new Commission; and our third principle should be for a strong candidate for the European Commission President, for a timetable for the new Commission to be in place and a strong and clear programme of reform.
Those are the principles at which we should be looking in our deliberations over the next two days.
I am sure those are the principles which the people of the European Union want to see as a result of the crisis that currently engulfs us.
If we do that, working together, I believe that we have an opportunity now to demonstrate a new sort of future, a new sort of Europe for the next millennium.