This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Michael Reid:

Madam President, I should first like to congratulate Mr Mombaur.
This is the traditional thing to do, but this evening I mean it completely.
I congratulate him for three things.
For producing not simply a report with comment but also a well workedout action plan, for having organized a hearing for the Committee on Energy, Research and Technology at which we were informed quite clearly what the future was and, of course, for achieving a unanimous vote in committee.

The European Parliament has a longstanding commitment to renewable energy.
It has shown that in its resolutions but more practically it has shown it in enhancing the budget for those energies.
I am very pleased that Mr Mombaur accepts the target of  15   of primary energy by the year  2010 , a target set in the Madrid Conference and in the action plan following that conference recently followed up in Milan.

If we look at the current situation then, it is disappointing: nowhere near  15  , more like  5  .
A whole range of barriers  technical, fiscal, regulatory  a lot of ignorance and a considerable amount of inertia amongst the Member States.
We have competitors who do not show that inertia.
The United States and Japan are jumping into markets: huge contracts recently signed in China and India by American companies for photovoltaic arrays.
We do not even use the money that is available in the European Union as well as we could.
We could be using the structural funds to have regional projects for renewable energy.
We could be using MEDA much more.
We could be using PHARE and TACIS.
They are overwhelmingly being used on nuclear programmes when they are not always appropriate.

The Council of Ministers has shown time after time an attitude of obstructiveness and the saga of THERMIE II is testimony to the way in which it has not seized the opportunity to enhance renewable power.
It is essential that in the IGC discussions there are movements towards giving us a Treaty competence for renewable energy alongside that which we have, somewhat anachronistically, for nuclear power through the Euratom Treaty.
We need an equivalent of the Euratom Treaty for renewable energy.

It would be a good idea by the way if we did something in our new buildings to do with renewable energy.
As far as I can tell there is no plan to do anything at all and that is disgraceful.
Does it matter?
Yes, it matters because we made promises at Rio that we would meet commitments in cutting CO 2  and we have not met those promises.
We are not keeping them and we will not unless we change direction.
It matters because in some part of the world  in Africa, India and China  people are leading diminished lives because they have no access to electricity.
There are no grids anywhere near them and only renewable energy can give them access to electricity and the sort of life we take for granted.
It matters because of the potential in our own European Union and in the whole of central and eastern Europe.
It matters because we are throwing away the possibility of jobs.
We say that our No  1  priority is the creation of jobs.
Yet we do not take one measure in the form of renewable energy which would certainly provide jobs.

So, what do we have to do?
First, the action plan in Mr Mombaurs report.
I hope that colleagues will look at that very carefully.
It lists not only what should happen but who should do it.
We should follow up progress on that action plan at least every six months.
The European Union has a budget it could use.
The Commission could coordinate very much better than it does the actions of all the different directoratesgeneral involved with renewable energy.

We could have a prize.
I would like to suggest that it be called the Phoebus Prize after the sun god.
Our Member States  and we have some influence there  should start removing some of those barriers.
I am delighted to say that the industry concerned with renewable energy has this evening taken the very sensible step of setting up the European Renewable Energy Export Council.
Five different types of renewable energy have come together in one export council and that is an excellent step forward.
We need industry to go out and sell renewable energy.

I say to Commissioner Papoutsis that we know he has a strong and sincere commitment to renewable energy.
As Mr Mombaur has said, we look forward to working with him over the next years to ensure that something which should have happened long before at least happens now.