This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Sebastian Merx:

Mr President, my group is very aware of the responsibility it bears in this debate today.
Within this group we have Members of Parliament who represent nine socialist and social democratled governments in this Union, and these parties are in government in three more of the  15 .
We do not pretend that it is easy to find a common position, given the range of views which are represented not just in those  12  governments but also amongst the people of the European Union whom we represent.
But I want to pay tribute to my colleagues who have striven to find principles which are common to us all and which unite us in this, one of the most difficult lifeanddeath decisions this present Parliament has had to confront since  1994 .

Firstly, we must remember that we, in the European Parliament, do not dispose of armies, aeroplanes, bombs or aircraft carriers.
Let us be entirely honest; we do not even have a common foreign and security policy worth its name.
We have made our criticism about the lack of progress of the CFSP quite clear in recent years and, particularly, our dissatisfaction at the provisions of the Amsterdam Treaty in this respect.
So I think we need to demonstrate a little humility when it comes to decisionmaking in this field, and show some support for those of our colleagues, of all political persuasions, who will be confronted with the decisionmaking on this issue in national parliaments; those who will really have the awesome responsibility for the lives of their fellow citizens under arms and those of the many thousands of Iraqi citizens who are at risk.
With all of this in mind, my group has just three main strategic political points which it wants to make in this debate.

Firstly, we insist absolutely that Saddam Hussein must comply fully with the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council and allow the unrestricted and unconditional access of the UN weapons inspection teams to all locations on Iraqi territory.
There can be no compromise on this.
These UN resolutions on Iraq represented a real step forward by beginning the process of monitoring and verifying disarmament.
The UN showed what the future could hold in determining a safer world.
If we were then, and are now, serious about this work, we must not allow Saddam Hussein to flout the international community.

Secondly, my group believes that the only body legitimately responsible for this policy is the United Nations.
We want to give our wholesale support to the UN and, in particular, we thank the Secretary General for the hard work and commitment he has shown in his attempt to solve this crisis through diplomatic and political pressure.
We wish him well on his mission to Baghdad.
We believe that it is the role of the United Nations Security Council to come together at this time to reconsider the Iraqi problem.

I must tell you that there are some in my group who believe passionately that the United Nations, and only the United Nations, should decide what happens next.
They argue against any military action without the sanction of the United Nations Security Council.
Whilst they do not represent the majority in my group, be in no doubt that they do not argue that case from any weakening resolve to enforce existing UN resolutions; nor because they want to give Saddam Hussein any hope that he will be able to escape our determination to remove from him any potential to damn the region and the world with his weapons of mass destruction.
Rather, they argue the need for a fresh UN mandate because they fear to inflict death and destruction on Iraqi civilians, who are the real losers in this; because they also fail to understand the objectives of a military strike against Iraq; and because they genuinely fear that a precipitate military strike may initiate a conflagration in the Middle East that would kill and destroy on scale not seen for many years.
There is not one member of my group who does not share those dreads.

For the great majority, however, we believe that the United Nationsled drive for a political and diplomatic solution must be the focus for our parliamentary action at this moment.

Thirdly, my group is committed to the foodforoil programme and the additional programme which Kofi Annan has proposed to support the Iraqi people.

I know that next Monday,  23  February, the General Affairs Council has the situation of Iraq on its agenda.
I hear you saying that the Presidency has kept partners in the European Union informed.
In our view, information is not enough.
Parliament needs the Council to find a common position for the European Union.
We recognize the difficulties; we recognize the lack of precision and real competence in the Treaty on European Union; but our Union is, if anything, a real model of conflict resolution.

Please use every ounce of strength and vision which the Presidency can muster to give the European Union a leading role in the world on this issue.
Give us a European Union of which its people can be proud.
And please show us that the European Union means more than words in a treaty.