This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Katarina Bauer:

Mr President, I was interested to hear the point Commissioner De Silguy made about the similarities between Mr Cassidys report and the Commissions annual report.
If that is the case then Commissioner De Silguy has been looking at rather different documents to those that this House has looked at.
The one significant thing about the Commissions annual economic report is its breathtaking complacency.

The Commissioner comes before us today and says that we can expect a growth rate of markedly less than  2   within the European Union this year.
He then talks about the need to consolidate confidence in the European economy.
When President Santer took over the Commission he said the key feature of this Commission would be that it would do less better.
The only thing this Commission has done so far on economic policy is less.
We are still waiting for the better to be delivered.

The Commission document talks about a paradox in the European economy.
It says that we have strong economic fundamentals and yet we have depressed growth.
There is no paradox here and the Commissioner knows this.
Many economic experts are telling the Commissioner that there is no paradox in Europes economy.
The fact is that if the European Commission continues an approach of wishful thinking, hoping and believing that at some time in the future the European economy will pick up again, we will reach this point next year and we will find that the employment crisis will be worse and there will have been no change in business confidence.

In the next few weeks the European Commission has the chance to change that with its broad economic guidelines.
I seriously suggest to the Commission that it looks very carefully at the recommendations in the Cassidy report because when that report is voted tomorrow in this House it will win a substantial majority across all the political groups.
We will not be satisfied when the Commissioner comes before us again if the broad economic guidelines are simply a further example of chanting this mantra that we must wait and things will get better in the months and years ahead.

Let us look at the detail.
Mrs RandzioPlath mentioned the mix between monetary policy and fiscal policy.
Inflation is now at historically low levels.
We accept that we have to have price stability.
But why do we have this preoccupation with such tight monetary policy and fiscal policy at a time when we have such historically low levels of inflation.
There has to be a better balance between monetary policy and fiscal policy in the European Union.
The broad economic guidelines should recognize that.
We must try to get shortterm interest rates down.

This House accepts that to deal with currency fluctuations we have to try to reach the goal of economic and monetary union.
There is no doubt about that.
We are fully behind the Commission on that.
But we have to recognize that we have to gain public confidence for this project.
Unless there is a change in the direction of growth and unless unemployment is reducing in the European Union, we are going to get to the Spring of  1998  and there will be little public confidence in the important initiative of the single currency.

We talk about a crisis of confidence.
Of course there is a crisis of confidence.
You need only look at the people, for example in Germany, France and Spain who do not known what is going to happen to the social muddle of their economy.
They do not know what is going to happen to their social benefits because governments are using EMU as an excuse to cut the social programmes.
We need to have mediumterm budget programmes and proposals and that should be highlighted in the Commissions broad economic guidelines.
We need to give people some certainty and some transparency about what governments are planning for the next two to three years.

As far as the public is concerned, consumer confidence will not be regained unless people feel that there is some job security, that they are not going to be thrown into poverty or onto the scrapheap at some time in the future.
Where are the flanking measures to bring about retraining and investment that is necessary to give consumers confidence for the future?

Lastly, on the issue of investment: we cannot sacrifice public investment in the name of fiscal consolidation.
That is a shortterm political goal and it will lead to the destruction of further confidence in Europes economy.
In conclusion, if, when the Commissioner comes back to us with his broad economic guidelines, these are based upon the annual economic report of the Commission, there will be a strong move in this House not just to condemn the broad economic guidelines but to reject what he is proposing to us.