This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Michael McNabb:

Mr President, I want to thank Prime Minister Prodi, President Santer and the PresidentinOffice, Mr Dini, for their reports.
I listened with particular and careful attention to the two reports by Mr Prodi and Mr Santer on the evaluation of Florence.
I must admit my evaluation is somewhat different to theirs.
I was a little surprised at their upbeat response particularly with regard to employment.

The Madrid Summit six months ago has become known as the summit of the single currency.
Florence was heralded as the Council of employment.
The reality was that BSE and the policy of noncooperation in Europe which the British Government had instigated was hanging like a cloud over the Florence Summit.
Indeed, that cloud contained over  100  pieces of European Union legislation vetoed by the British Government.

So the signs and signals in advance of Florence were not auspicious.
Therefore, I suspect that most people in the European Union were not surprised that nothing came out of the Council with regard to employment, bearing in mind the chaos in the Union and its decisionmaking at that moment.
Perhaps it was our expectations as politicians dealing with this issue that were naive and unrealistic.
We actually expected something on employment out of the Florence Summit.

People have spoken about the resolution of the policy of noncooperation in Europe and resolution of the BSE crisis.
The Florence summit did not solve the BSE crisis.
What it solved was the institutional and political crisis created by the British Government.
It did not resolve BSE.
Of course we welcome the framework agreement to look at the BSE crisis, but I want to remind the Council of the firm determination of this House and of my group for real action to protect the health and safety of European consumers as the paramount issue in the BSE crisis.
That has not gone away and is not resolved.

(Applause) On employment we have heard pious words, pious words and pious words.
Over two years of discussions in summit we have seen very little real action on employment.
Only if action follows those words are the words great.
In his introduction, Mr Prodi commented on the firm determination of the Council in Florence on the detail of EMU.
What a pity that same firm determination was not there on employment.
There was a total lack of action with regard to employment.
No resources, no greater coordination, no adjustment of the broad economic guidelines and the policy mix within it which we had urged on the Council just a few weeks ago.

We should take one example: the transEuropean networks.
There was great expectation that finally, after all this time, there would be funding for the TENs coming out of the Florence Summit.
We know now that is not to happen, it is not to be.
Not only was there no money for the TENs, but let me remind everybody in this House and the Council, only four days before the Florence Summit, after months of tortuous negotiation between Council and Parliament, after meetings that lasted not just through the day but through the night, there was agreement in conciliation on the TENs.
In Florence, four days later after that agreement, the Council decided unilaterally to change the conciliation on TENs.
I want to say now to the Council that if it is going to take unilateral action of that sort, I hope it will come to this Parliament.
I hope Mr Prodi will be able to tell us how the Council intends to bring that change to the agreement made four days before with this Parliament to this Parliament so that we can be a part of the TENs agreement  as we deserve to be.

(Applause) Let us be in no doubt that if this House had unilaterally changed that conciliation agreement, the Council would have been furious with us and we have a right to be furious with it.
If I sound angry, it is because I am angry.
The people of the European Union blame us all for lack of action on employment.
They do not differentiate between the Council, the Commission and Parliament.
They blame the European Union and my group does not want to be associated with this failure on employment.
It is the single most important issue for our people and we want our citizens to see, as we in this Parliament have done, that we care about them and we care about employment.
We must now look forward to Dublin.
We will do that but please let us not overestimate the decisions of Florence.
To most of our citizens, and to us, they were a great disappointment.

(Applause)