This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Alastair Brown:

Mr President, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I wish to welcome the Prime Minister of Ireland, John Bruton, to this House today and take the opportunity of both thanking and congratulating him on the excellent work of the Irish Government during the six months it held the presidency of the European Union.

Ireland took over the presidency at a crucial time when the intergovernmental process was in the doldrums, when a concerted effort was needed to try to reestablish its momentum.
Whilst my group may have very many criticisms of the draft treaty which came out of the Dublin II summit  and many of these will be aired by my groups specialists later in this debate  there is little doubt that the Irish commitment to and success in producing a draft Treaty covering many of the vital areas under consideration was a very considerable feat, especially given the very real differences which exist between the Member States of the Union on sensitive issues such as: flexibility and qualified majority voting; employment and the social dimension: the third pillar and the fight against drugs; international crime and terrorism; the development of a common foreign and security policy; and enlargement of the Union and much, much more.

Ireland also took over the presidency at a time when the timetable for economic and monetary union demanded action, a time when the concept of EMU was under attack in many Member States and when it would have been simpler and much more comfortable simply to ease off the throttle and wait for the following presidencies to take up the challenge.

I want to pay tribute to Ruairi Quinn who has been the PresidentinOffice of the Council of Economic and Finance Ministers under the Irish presidency and who was determined not to take the easy option but rather to succeed with his agenda, to reach agreement on the stability pact, to finalize the legal arrangements for the Euro and the structure of the new EMS, all of this at a time when the Irish presidency was engaged with a heavy timetable of Council meetings, with the vexed questions of the budget of the Union for  1997  and at the same time conducting an ambitious series of meetings with this Parliament.
I pay tribute to the work of Mr Mitchell, who is here this morning, in that respect.
The presidency also met with the committees and political groups in this Parliament, while of course governing Ireland and engaging in the tortuous process of seeking real peace and reconciliation in Northern Ireland.

Perhaps it is to Ireland and its buoyant economy, its expanding potential and its burgeoning confidence that we should look when we ask ourselves why one of the Unions smallest countries should have performed so well in the presidency of the Union.
Unlike its big neighbour, Irelands government  and when we listen to Mr Bruton this morning we understand why  understands the European perspective.
It has engaged itself in the processes of the European Union, not just in a very practical sense but through an intellectual examination of Irelands future prospects and place in the world.
That was well demonstrated by Mr Brutons comments.

I want to turn my attention for a moment to the foreign policy agenda of the Union in the past six months.
Ireland has exercised a measured and thoughtful role in this most difficult of areas as well.
In this Parliament we have congratulated Foreign Minister Dick Spring for his intelligent and sensitive handling of Europes role in the Middle East peace process.
Once again in contrast to some of the Heads of State in the Union, the Irish presidency operated with a maturity that brought credit on the Union and we thank the Prime Minister for that as well.

We on this side of the House believe that your presidency has been a success.
That is not to say of course that we agree with every decision or every statement and Mr Bruton would not expect us to.
Far from it, but we are able to see that the Irish presidency was conducted efficiently and effectively in staunch defence of European objectives and with integrity.
It has laid the grounds for the Dutch presidency and demonstrated that Europe can play a role internationally.
Such a role is crucial at this moment.
The PresidentinOffice will recollect that the European Union played a facilitating role in the Middle East peace process at the Barcelona Conference which launched the Unions Mediterranean policy.
As I am sure we all do, I welcome the signing of the Hebron Agreement today.

Given the present tensions in the Eastern Mediterranean, the opportunity now exists for the Union to demonstrate its facilitating role again by using the arena of the Mediterranean Conference to bring together all those involved in the current tension  Turkey, Greece and Cyprus, all involved and committed to the Mediterranean process.

Shortly the Foreign Ministers, including that of Ireland, will meet in the context of the Mediterranean Conference to discuss security issues.
I urge them and I hope you will urge them, as the outgoing presidency but part of the Troika of the European Union, to exercise their considerable diplomatic and political leverage to diminish both tension and the desperately dangerous arms race which has now gathered pace in the Eastern Mediterranean.
We should be pursuing the item which has been on the agenda for the last two years of demilitarization on the island of Cyprus with as much strength and vigour as they are now pursuing the arms race in the Eastern Mediterranean.

In conclusion, the Irish presidency has laid a firm foundation for the succeeding presidencies on the IGC, on EMU and shown that sensitive diplomacy which recognizes what Europe can do and the role it can play in the present world is something we have to offer.
We thank the presidency for that.