This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Alastair MacLeod:

rapporteur.
 Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs very much for their good collaboration on this report.

Energy efficiency is vital for cutting carbon emissions, enhancing security of supply and boosting economic efficiency.
In October  2006  the Commission produced an action plan for energy efficiency, proposing a  20  improvement in energy efficiency by  2020  and setting out  10  priority areas for action.
These ranged from appliances to buildings and transport and included financial incentives, energy efficiency awareness and much more.
EU Heads of State endorsed the Commissions action plan last March and energy efficiency made the headlines because Chancellor Merkel declared that inefficient incandescent light bulbs should be banned.

Now it is the Parliaments turn to assess the action plan.
I hope that our report will send out a strong signal about what MEPs want to see happen on energy efficiency.
The first signal that this report makes is that some of the Commissions proposals do not quite go far enough.
I would like to give three examples.
Firstly, the proposal to revise the Energy Performance of Buildings Directive: the Commission proposes minimum energy performance requirements for buildings and for building components, which is good.
Buildings are key to cutting energy demand.
Over  40  of the energy we use is consumed in buildings and  75  of the buildings standing today will still be here in  2050 , so we need to tackle energy efficiency in existing buildings as well as in new stock.
But we should not just be lowering the  1   000  m 2  threshold in the Energy Performance of Buildings Directive  we should be getting rid of it altogether and applying the Directive to all buildings requiring heating and cooling, regardless of size.
We also need to bring forward the deadline for a passive house standard for residential and nonresidential buildings across Europe.
It is not good enough just to have this as a mediumterm goal.

Secondly, on appliances, Parliaments report welcomes the proposal to put in place minimum energy performance requirements coupled with a dynamic system of energy labelling, to keep up with advances in technology.
But our report calls on the Commission to come forward with a onewatt performance requirement for standby, and to carry out an analysis of the potential energy savings to be made from eliminating standby altogether.
Our report also urges the Commission to set a timetable for taking completely off the market some very energyinefficient items of equipment, such as patio heaters.

Thirdly, the report calls for more help for small businesses, which are particularly affected by rising fuel prices and in need of energy efficiency.
Unfortunately, both the EU and national financing schemes tend to be complex.
It is fine if you are a big company, but if you are a microbusiness with a handful of employees, you do not have the capacity to access complex programmes.
Small businesses need to be treated like domestic households and offered simple schemes and upfront money.

So that is the first message of the report: that we need to go a little further.
The second big message is that there has been a failure by both the Commission and national governments to implement existing energy efficiency legislation.
The Commissions action plan for saving  20  by  2020  is not a standalone plan.
It builds very heavily on previous legislation, and the implementation of this legislation has been a disgrace.
The Buildings Directive has only been properly transposed by a handful of Member States.
Six months after the  30  June deadline, a third of Member States have still not submitted their national energy efficiency action plans.
The Commission has not put in place all the  20  extra staff it said were necessary to deliver energy efficiency commitments and, for that reason, the timetable on the action plan has slipped.

I would, however, like to thank the Commission for responding in a very positive and constructive manner to the criticisms voiced in this report and, in particular, the exchange of letters between Commissioner Piebalgs and Ms Niebler, which has brought an update to Parliament on the situation.