This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Sarah White:

Member of the Commission.
Mr President, the Commission is very well aware of the definite imbalance between male and female researchers.
The latest available statistics show that, in all disciplines, over  50  of graduates, but only  15  of professors, are female.
In science, engineering and technology, the figures are  34  for female graduates and  9  for female professors respectively.
The Commission agrees that this is a waste of talent and resources.

Since  1999 , several documents by the Commission have addressed the participation of women in European research.
The Commission is devoted to gathering reliable statistical data in order to view the complete situation and it publishes these results regularly in a brochure entitled She Figures.
This brochure was published in  2003  and  2006 , and the next publication is expected in  2009 .
Since the Fifth Framework Programme, the Commission has also provided financial support to studies and action in the field of women in science.
In addition, under the Sixth Framework Programme, a budget of EUR  15 . 7  million has been devoted to women in science.
Several projects are ongoing: addressing the need to provide role models to encourage women to pursue a career in science, for instance.

The  2005  Competitiveness Council conclusions led Member States to set a goal of  25  of women in leading positions in the public sector.
In this regard, an expert group on women in research decisionmaking has begun to look at the formal and informal barriers which make it difficult for women to reach toplevel positions in research.
Under the new framework programme, a similar expert group will look at the issue of scientific excellence and potential gender bias in the evaluation of scientific excellence.

In the Seventh Framework Programme, the line of action with regard to gender issues is divided into three main areas of activity.
Firstly, in order to strengthen the role of women in scientific research, we will finance projects to compare positive action schemes for women in research decisionmaking positions, which will cover Europe, the US, Canada and Australia.

Secondly, under gender dimension of research, the areas of action in the Seventh Framework Programme will include gender issues as regards the definition and measurement of scientific excellence.
For instance, an analysis of all research carried out in the EU on issues of discrimination and disadvantages for female researchers will be financed through this type of activity.

Thirdly and finally, as regards mainstreaming gender in Community research policy and programmes, work programmes under the cooperationspecific programme encourage female participation.
The Commission also continues to have a target of  40  of females on evaluation panels and this is monitored regularly.

In addition, we have planned to provide training and guidance to various researchers on how to mainstream gender in research.

Whatever we do in the Seventh Framework Programme, it is and will be an important policy statement and will also be important for a number of research organisations who participate in the framework programme.
We will have only a limited impact on the situation on the ground in Europe.
Thus, we are also looking for new ideas on which the Commission could take action or Member States could take action with the support of the Commission.
Therefore we intend to make this a question in its own right in the ERA green paper.
The more the specific situation and needs of researchers in Europe are recognised, with regard to mobility or portability of social security rights for example, the more scope there could be for addressing the specific role of women in research.
The ERA green paper will soon be discussed by the Commission and I would like to invite Members to actively participate in the ERA debate which ensues.
Furthermore, I am relying on your strong support on this and other issues.

In conclusion, I should like to emphasise that we have opted for a longterm approach based on constant efforts and continuous support in promoting the role of women in the world of science, using the measures and activities I have just explained.