This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Mary Merx:

Madam President, unfortunately this debate today comes at a very tense moment when the situation in the whole region is deteriorating both in Lebanon and in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, as well as in Israel.
The events of the last three days in Lebanon, with significant loss of life in such a short time  almost  100  dead  are a startling reminder of the need to work on a regional solution to this conflict.
As you know, Javier Solana is in Beirut today at this very difficult moment and we hope that a better situation can be brought about.

I urge our friends in Lebanon, from all the parties and political factions, to act as they have done so far, to call for calm and to refrain from actions which could provoke a major internal conflict.
Once again national unity is also at stake.

The Commission noted that all the factions, the majority and the opposition as well as Palestinian organisations, condemned Fatah alIslam and I hope that all political leaders will continue to give proof of their maturity, that ability to envisage a better future, and will prevent the conflict from again evolving into an intraLebanese fight.
What is most important now is to find a solution to deescalate the situation in Tripoli and to avoid the eruption of other hot spots in the rest of the country.
The population in the camps also has to be helped.
Ambulances and humanitarian convoys must gain access to the camps.
In the end we all know that there has to be a regional solution.
In the context of this whole situation we can only call on all sides  in Lebanon and in the Palestinian Territory  to refrain from violence and prevent further escalation.

I turn now in particular to the Occupied Palestinian Territory.
Like the PresidentinOffice, I too am deeply concerned about last weeks interfactional clashes in Gaza which resulted in  55  dead and  280  injured.
Regrettably it seems that Gaza is at risk of sliding into civil war.
Factions should stop hostilities immediately and reconcile their differences within the national unity government.

I also deplore the resumption of the Qassam rocket attacks from Gaza on the Israeli city of Sderot, which yesterday caused the death of an Israeli woman.
Israeliled air strikes in retaliation then caused the death of  35  Palestinians, so this vicious cycle has started again.
Therefore it is important that the ceasefire between Israel and the Palestinians be restored and extended to the West Bank.

During my recent meeting with the Palestinian Foreign Affairs Minister, Ziad Abu Amr, we discussed the fragile situation of the national unity government, especially as concerns security, but also the budget.
The first decisions taken by the government seem to point in the right direction.
Mr Abu Amr mentioned that his government considers itself the cabinet of President Abbas.
This government has a different programme from its predecessor and I felt encouraged after this meeting.
I think that it deserves our clear support.
President Abbas has requested all our backing, as his political survival may depend on its success.
I hope that this very difficult violent situation can be contained.

In the meantime, Finance Minister Salam Fayad, whom I met after the formation of the government, faces the incredible challenge of repairing the Palestinian public finances after one year of institutional decay and a sharp decrease in revenues.
Against all odds he has made considerable progress and the technical conditions for receiving direct funding have almost been put in place.

As you know, the Palestinian Authority has three main sources of funding: internal taxes, taxes and customs revenues on imported products, and foreign aid.
Internal taxes have dwindled as a result of the economic slowdown.
Since last years election, Israel has also withheld the taxes and customs revenues on imported products.
This is the major cause of the Palestinian Authoritys financial difficulties.
Furthermore, foreign aid cannot flow easily as a result of the USimposed restrictions on financial transactions with the Palestinian Authority Government

We are helping to solve these financial problems in three ways.
First, our Temporary International Mechanism has become a core source for funding for allowances, fuel costs and core supplies.
Since the formation of the national unity government we manage this TIM in close cooperation with Salam Fayads Ministry of Finance.

Since the establishment of the TIM last June, we have already transferred over EUR  300  million through this mechanism.
I would like to thank Parliament for its support in making more budgetary resources available so that the TIM can continue to deliver.

A second way in which we are helping is to work with our US partners to facilitate the transfer of foreign aid to the Palestinians, in particular the Arab funds pledged in Riyadh at the recent Arab summit.

Last but not least, we have urged Israel on multiple occasions to resume the transfer of Palestinian tax and customs revenues.
We are using all the instruments we have, whether economic or political, but the survival of this government does not depend only on us.
Only the resumption of all financial flows to the Palestinian Authority can deliver a durable solution to their financial crisis.
And the Palestinians have to play their role and decide once and for all to end their fighting and focus on peace.

We still think that, despite the distress we are witnessing in the Occupied Palestinian Territory and in Lebanon, we should profit from an important window of opportunity in the peace process in case it shuts down again, so it is very important that the German initiative is successful.
It is crucial that the Arab League relaunches its Peace Initiative.
As you know, there has been a determined diplomatic followup at the highest level in the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament.
I myself have had several meetings with the FollowUp Committee in Sharm el Sheikh, in Riyadh, and also more recently at the GAERC meeting in Brussels.

SecretaryGeneral Amr Moussa and others have underlined the urgency which is more evident than ever today and he has asked for our help in bringing the parties to the table.
On the Israeli side, I am encouraged that Foreign Minister Livni has been to Cairo and is now expecting a followup visit by her Jordanian and Egyptian counterparts in the coming weeks.
She has also shown willingness to engage more than in the past and she will also be invited by the German Presidency to the next GAERC meeting.

At the same time I also endorse the efforts of Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice to bring the parties together and start discussing the political horizon for the Palestinians.
I hope that will be possible even though events are not going well at this moment.
The energy and efforts invested by Jordan, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and others must also be recognised.

Next week the Quartet will meet.
I hope that this meeting will respond to the efforts of the Arab League, which could relaunch the progress on all tracks of the peace process, but I am also realistic and I understand what the German Presidency has said, that we should at least uphold the situation.