This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Amy Finlayson:

Mr President, first of all I should like to thank the rapporteurs for their reports.
There are some excellent ideas in the various reports and I hope that the Commission in the context of their work in  1997  will take on board many of their ideas.

I would like to say to the Commissioners that it is by no means a coincidence that we are having a debate this afternoon where we are dealing with all of these reports together.
The reason for this debate is that we want to link industry policy, we want to link competition policy, we want to link the internal market, we want to link the policies on small and mediumsized enterprises together, because frankly, at the moment, it is the view of this Parliament that, while the Commission services in their own directoratesgeneral fulfil a very good role on behalf of the citizens of the European Union, there still is not sufficient coordination and collaboration on these various policies.
I want to deal with some of issues in my short address.

We have to recognize that, given the growth rates in the European Union between now and the end of the decade, we are looking at growth of possibly around  2   or  2 . 5  .
That means that the unemployment problem in Europe will not be tackled.
We will still have very high levels of unemployment when we reach the end of this century.

It is also a fact that we are dealing in global markets.
It is no longer the case that we have European industries.
We have global industries operating in European markets.
Therefore we need to create a climate that will allow those industries to thrive and to allow the small and mediumsized companies that form part of the supply chain also to thrive in the future.
That is why the policy on small and mediumsized enterprises on industry policy, on competition and on the internal market must be brought together in a clearer focus.

We will ask  my group will certainly be asking  in the context of the Commissions work programme in  1997  for a new annual report to be produced by the European Commission.
This should link these areas of policy, look clearly at the competitiveness of the European Union and ensure that there is compatibility between these various policies.

We also need to look at the economic impact of these various policies.
I know, for example, that DG II in the European Commission produces reports on the economics of certain major policies that the European Commission may put forward.
I suspect those reports filter as far up as directorsgeneral in the European Commission.
I suspect those reports do not touch the desks of European Commissioners.
It is essential that DG II  those people who are analysing the economic performance of European Union policies  are allowed to express their views directly to the College of Commissioners.
We want to see that that happens in the future.

I want to deal with some changes in the business environment and the way in which these policies of competition, SMEs, industry and the internal market need to work more closely together.
In particular I want to look at the supply chain that industries are involved in.
Let us look, Commissioner Bangemann, at an industry that you and I have dealt with recently  the car industry.
In the car industry of the past, all of the research and development, many of the components and so forth, were dealt with by the core company themselves.
Those days have now gone.

We now have a supply chain which means that in many cases research and development has pushed down the supply chain to the first, second or even the thirdtier suppliers in this sector.
There are many other sectors of the economy where the supply chain now is completely different to the way it existed ten years ago.
It is the small and mediumsized enterprises that are the key to that supply chain, the innovative industries who are now designing, who are involved in valueadded manufacturing services.
So our policies have to reflect that.

If we look at competition policy, too often it is used as an excuse for industry policy.
Again, if we look at the car industry, we have had the bloc exemption in the car industry as far as the sale of cars is concerned.
That really is using competition policy as a mechanism for industry policy.
Of course, we have had the voluntary export arrangements which will last until  1999 , again using competition policy or trade policy largely for industry policy.

We have got to get these policies of internal market industry, small and mediumsized enterprises, research and development working closely together.
Unless we do that we are going to continue to have growth rates of around  2  .
We are going to continue to have unemployment levels of  18  million and our impact as a European Union is going to be absolutely minimal.
So next year, we want the Commission to come forward with an annual report which ties these policies together, which links it to competitiveness, to see whether or not there is real compatibility between the various directoratesgeneral and the policies that are pursued by the European Union.