This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Claire Corless:

Mr President, genetic resources, patents and their economic control are the key questions of the coming millennium.
With unlimited patentability, life itself and all living plants and animals would become an industrial product.
Even human life would be exploited by this directive.
The genetic resources of our planet must not be monopolized in the private hands of a few companies.

At the moment the European Patent Convention draws a clear line between inventions and living material.
First of all, discoveries such as genes are not patentable; plant and animal varieties and procedures for the breeding of plants and animals are excluded from patents.
To photocopy the genes and then declare that an invention is a travesty of science.
The pressure that industry has exerted on politicians in order to ensure that the patent system includes living material is intense.
The way this directive is being pushed through is contrary to acceptable political decisionmaking.
This requires open discussion and informed decision by those given a mandate by their citizens.

If the Commission has sought to prohibit Commission employees from freely disseminating information to the public, this would be an attack going to the heart of our European democracy, and I want an answer from the Commissioner on this point.

Commissioner Cresson gave this House an assurance on the banning of human cloning, but the directive does not ban patents on the product of human cloning.
That a protohuman being could be cannibalized for spare parts cannot be contemplated.

Patients suffering from inherited diseases have been told that patenting is necessary for the development of therapies.
The reverse is true: the patenting of human genes will create problems for the development of therapies.
Free and immediate access to information, i.e.
in the human genome project, is the prerequisite for the beneficial use of this information.
Patents on the gene would mean that a single biomedical company could completely control all future research and medical development leading from the isolation of a specific gene.
This would not foster research but kill it.
It would also make the possibility of genetic testing for a disorder such as breast cancer so prohibitively expensive that it would be beyond the scope of the public health services.
While new techniques will soon allow rapid and inexpensive analysis of genes, if a patent has to be paid on each gene analysed, testing for breast cancer predisposition could become prohibitively expensive.

One of the key issues is the question of whether doctors and medical personnel will be free to diagnose and treat people without a royalty payment to the patentholder.
Current law prohibits patents on methods for the treatment of the human body by surgery or therapy and diagnostic methods practised on the human body.
This is removed by the draft directive.
I urge colleagues to vote for Amendment No  91  by the Green Group which proposes such a doctors exemption.
An example of the problems raised is the case of the breast cancer gene already referred to.
The US patentholders, Myriad, have applied for a Europatent and are seeking to charge over  2 ,  000  dollars for its use in screening.

If the directive is passed, there are serious implications for our access to food and medicine.
Our gene cells and body parts and our resistance to hereditary disorders would become the monopoly property of the companies that hold the patents on them.
This would legitimize trade in such items as blood plasma and transplant organs which are now prohibited from sale in many Member States and are the subject of a complex donor network organized by the national health departments for the public good.
For example, the granting of a patent on umbilicalcord blood could deny access to these blood cells to anyone unable to pay for them.

Colleagues, the Clinton administration in the US has sought to move US health care towards a European model.
If we now move our European health service towards an American model, leaving aside the public good, the citizens of these Member States will not forgive us.