This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Frederic Smith:

Mr President, I welcome todays debate on the Schroedter report on the Agenda  2000  chapter on economic and social cohesion as a solid basis on which to launch Parliaments more detailed and comprehensive work on the regulations governing the Structural Funds.
As Mrs Schroedter said, there was a unanimous vote in the Committee on Regional Policy but I think she would also admit that was as a result of very substantial amendments tabled by many political groups, and, indeed, we have much more work to do in this area.

In response to Mr Colom i Naval, I would say that now is not the time to deal with the very detailed regulations in the Structural Funds: we will look at them when we draw up specific detailed reports.

This is a timely debate, following on from last weeks discussions under the British presidency in the Informal Council in Glasgow and the General Affairs Council in Luxembourg, and in the light of todays very topical discussion at the Cardiff Summit on the progress report on Agenda  2000 , prepared by the British presidency to identify those areas where a consensus exists in the Council.

Therefore, in the light of these discussions, I wish to take some time to highlight a potential approach that my group will be taking during the reform process.
There is no doubt that this reform of structural and Cohesion Funds represents the most significant changes in the last ten years with a view to meeting the challenges of enlargement and EMU.
Enlargement will surely offer opportunities to our regions but we will want to ensure that the proposals presented by the Commission match our objectives and priorities as socialists, namely to continue the Delors legacy of promoting jobs, sustainable growth and the competitiveness of our regions and the central objective of economic and social cohesion of the Treaty to enable all citizens, regions and Member States to participate on an equal footing.
The Unions benefits must be at the forefront of our policy process.
This is just as much about creating equality of opportunity as removing the disparities between poorer and wealthier regions.

We should be clear about the internal challenges we face: one in five of Europes youth is out of work, unemployment among women is consistently higher than among men, longterm unemployment persists as a scourge of modern society.

The reform process must, therefore, combine fairness with affordability and durability, with more simplification and efficiency.
It must be fair in order to ensure we give priority to our poor regions without abandoning those problem regions going through the process of economic and social restructuring in wealthier Member States.
Solidarity, if it is to enjoy mass support, must be a twoway, and not a oneway process.
Subsidiarity and decentralization must be the cornerstone of our future policies to ensure that our regional policies are relevant to the needs and interests of local communities.

I would, therefore, like to welcome the decision that Parliament should be fully associated with the reform process.
We welcome the interinstitutional agreement and wish to see it signed and sealed under this presidency.
We have had a positive letter from Robin Cook, the PresidentinOffice, but we need to move forward now on the more fundamental items.

Finally, I wish to raise some areas where we need to consider the Commissions proposals in more detail: efficiency, of course, is fundamental to ensure the better use of funds but if the efficiency reserve leads to more red tape and bureaucracy and an increased monitoring role for Commission staff, then I fear that all we will be doing is employing more private consultants in order to monitor those processes.
So we need to look very carefully at how that reserve would work.
I would be in favour of looking at an innovation reserve with the appropriate procedures of decentralization and subsidiarity.

We will be judged by our citizens on how we handle the challenge of reform.
Only when the EU is seen to be contributing to the solution of major problems in society, such as poverty and unemployment, can we expect to enjoy their support and ensure the credibility of the Union and its policies and institutions.

My group will take this challenge seriously and we look forward to cooperating with the Council and the Commission in improving the Agenda  2000  proposals to gain support from the public.
We sincerely hope we will be given the opportunity of sharing in the executive powers  in a spirit of codecision, I might add.
In this way we can only add to the democratic legitimacy of the reform process.