This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Helen McNabb:

Mr President, this debate is important, is necessary, and is inevitably for many here a painful debate.
It is about public accountability and how and where to draw the line.
It occurs at a critical stage in EU affairs.
For my group I want to say that we all share a consciousness about achieving the strategic agenda: the standing of the euro, the exploitation of the new powers foreseen in the Amsterdam Treaty, Agenda  2000  and enlargement, to name but a few.
In this regard, as institutions with a European vocation, the Commission and Parliament are natural allies.
But in addition to its legislative and strategic agenda the Commission is also responsible for the daytoday management of EU affairs.
It is the job of this Parliament to ensure that these affairs are subject to democratic control and public accountability.
This House is the bar of public accountability before which the Commission is held accountable for its conduct in office.
In this domain it is natural to expect a certain degree of creative tension between the Commission, as executive, and Parliament.
This is healthy in any democracy.

We are holding this debate now because twice in the past  12  months the Commission has failed to win discharge for the  1996  budget, and because in advance of our vote on  17  December  1998  the Commission insisted that in the event of a negative outcome Parliament must clarify the situation by proceeding to a vote on a censure motion.
Many colleagues, across all political groups, while respecting the right of the Commission to adopt whatever political strategy it saw fit, deplored something they saw as tantamount to an interference in advance with parliamentary procedure and sovereignty.

Applause

While none can ever be certain, it is my strong personal conviction that the Commission turned a possible triumph into a certain defeat by that illtimed intervention.
It is the European Commission which drew this debate upon itself.
In the opinion of the ELDR Group, a confidence debate opens a wider field of political vision and perspective.
This is not simply a reheating or recycling of the  1996  budget debate.
Procedures through the Committee on Budgetary Control provide the prospect of dealing with this affair in due course and by due process.
In this debate we have crossed a line from the politics of accounting to the politics of accountability.

The Treaty confers on Parliament the right to censure only the entire college of Commissioners.
This is a crude and indiscriminate instrument.
In popular terms it is often correctly described as the nuclear option, where on hitting the censure button the entire Commission is meant to disappear.
Like nuclear weapons themselves, it is so drastic a measure that it commends caution in its deployment.

My group believes that the European Commission is a political body.
Some argue that the Commission is merely a body of appointed bureaucrats.
There are certain key characteristics which distinguish bureaucratic from political systems.
The public perception of bureaucracy is one of red tape and endless buckpassing.
Passing the buck, shifting problems from one source to another, and not accepting ultimate personal responsibility, are among the negative features often associated in the public mind with bureaucrats.
In politics the buck must stop somewhere.
That is what the politics of democratic control and public accountability are all about.

The Treaty confers on the Commission the status of college.
The collegiality of the Commission is founded on the concept of collective responsibility.
In every Member State cabinet government operates on the basis of collective responsibility.
From time to time national cabinets and their credibility are threatened by individual ministerial or policy failure for one reason or another.
In all our democratic systems the undertaking of personal responsibility by ministers for various shortcomings or conflicts of interest, and occasionally their resignation, is seen as a strength, not as a weakness, of the system.

Applause

This recognises that, sometimes, making everyone responsible effectively means that noone is responsible.
Why should that be the case for the European Commission?
Some will answer: But that is the law.
Yet Article  159  of the Treaty anticipates the possibility of Commissioners resigning without reference to specific circumstance.
Article  160  provides for a tougher remedy in respect of individual Commissioners.
While I accept that the Treaty makes no reference to the right of Parliament to censure individual Commissioners, it is silent on the right of Parliament to demand an individual, clear political preference in respect of the conduct of Commissioners affairs.

Last month the Commission empowered itself to demand of this House a vote of confidence through the censure route.
The Commission has no legal right, as has been said, to do that.
But politically it made the choice.
This month we can borrow from the Commissions precedent.
Let Parliament empower itself to call on individual Commissioners to consider their positions even if no formal legal base exists.

For some years now Parliament has demanded the right of individual censure.
This aspiration has not yet been accommodated in law.
It has been expressed today by us only in an abstract form.
Todays debate, in a concrete way, challenges each individual MEP to consider whether politically the circumstances exist to warrant a clear political statement demanding individual responsibility.

My group was appalled, politically speaking, at the blandness of the terms of the Socialist pseudocensure motion of December.
It offered political carte blanche to the entire Commission and in the light of the information available to us, it would have been incomprehensible for us to support it simpliciter .
Equally, to sack the entire Commission would appear disproportionate.
Consequently our strategy was to add to the censure debate an oral question.

In our motion for a resolution we have called on two named Commissioners to consider their positions.
I want it to be understood in the clearest terms that we are not acting in place of a court of law, nor as a public prosecutor; we are making no presumption about guilt or innocence since these belong to the judicial domain.
We are charging noone with personal fraud or rank corruption.
We are simply calling a political judgment that the rot in terms of mismanagement, irregularity, fraud and petty corruption will never stop if every Commissioner can constantly rely on the legal shield of collegiality and avoid personal responsibility.

Loud applause

This is the political issue at stake.
This is the choice that the House must make.
We must cross the bridge; we must move from aspiration and the abstract in a concrete form to demand that individuals be accountable for the mismanagement in their own areas of responsibility.

Loud applause