This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Marc Corless:

Member of the Commission.
 Mr President, I am very happy to have the opportunity to speak to Parliament before it finalises its second reading with Thursdays vote on the  2010  budget and on amending budget No  102009 , which has, in part, contributed to the successful outcome of the annual budgetary procedure.

The negotiations on the  2010  budget have required compromises and  may I dare to say  even sacrifices on all sides to achieve our common goal.
This would not have been possible without the constructive and responsible role played by the European Parliament and the Council throughout the negotiations.

I would like to highlight four main points.

Firstly, let me point out some key elements of the conciliation outcome.
Since the joint declaration agreed last April, we knew that we had to strike a delicate balance to find a source of financing for the EUR  2 . 4  billion of the European Economic Recovery Plan still outstanding.
That could only be achieved through a compensation mechanism and by using all budgetary means existing in the multiannual financial framework.
This was indeed a difficult constraint.

Despite such a difficult constraint, we succeeded in financing completely the Recovery Plan in  2010  and, as the general rapporteur points out, in agreeing on an EU budget that can be a tool to help overcome the economic crisis.

In times of difficulties, I believe the message to citizens is even stronger as we have also been able to respond at the same time to the unforeseen specific needs of milk producers, with the substantial support of Parliament.

Last but not least, the two arms of the Budgetary Authority have acknowledged the need for further assistance in  2010  to Bulgarias efforts relating to the decommissioning of the Kozloduy nuclear power plant, through the use of the flexibility instrument.

Secondly, as regards the reserves, let me thank Parliament and particularly the general rapporteur, Mr Surjn, for taking into account the responses given by the Commission in reaction to Parliaments first reading, in the socalled letter of executability.

That has led to an important reduction in the reserves entered in the  2010  draft budget at the time of Parliaments first reading.

Thirdly, I wish to stress the importance of a smooth transition to the Lisbon Treaty.
We are now definitively rooted in the Lisbon Treaty as regards the budgetary procedure.
Despite the uncertainties relating to the entry into force of the new treaty, we have been able to secure a smooth transition into the new legal framework.

The period ahead of us will be a challenge for all the institutions, as it will imply a modification of their approach and behaviour, with the need for reinforced dialogue from the very start of the budgetary procedure.
The Commission is ready to play its part and to reconcile positions in the new conciliation committee, while respecting the rights of the two arms of the Budgetary Authority, on an equal footing.

Today, we know that efforts are still to be made to put in place all the new legal instruments stemming from the entry into force of the treaty.
Nonetheless, by building on the loyal interinstitutional collaboration developed over the last two decades, we have been able to agree on a set of transitional measures that will allow the  2010  budget to work effectively.

Finally, there is amending budget No  102009 , revision of the financial framework and mobilisation of the flexibility instrument.
I take note that Parliament has also agreed to adopt the proposals on the revision of the Multiannual Financial Framework and, as already mentioned, on the flexibility instrument and amending budget No  10 .

I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Bge, for endorsing the results of the conciliation.
This shows that, to achieve our goal, we have been able to make the best use of the tools provided by the current interinstitutional agreement.

I would like also to express my thanks to the rapporteur for the  2009  budget, Mrs Haug, for her work throughout the year on the implementation of the  2009  budget and her support for amending budget No  102009 , which is part of the package linked with the revision of the Multiannual Financial framework and the financing of the Recovery Plan.

I have also noted your critical remarks towards the Commission about the need to improve its performance in terms of budget implementation.

This years amending budget foresees a reduction of EUR  3 . 2  billion in payment appropriations, which is significantly lower than the EUR  4 . 9  billion reduction of last year, and points to an improvement in the execution of a budget which, after the proposed reduction, is set at EUR  113  billion for  2009 .

However, there is still room for further improvement, and I can assure you that the Commission will continue to do its utmost to make best use of the authorised budget appropriations in  2010 .

As to the issue of the simplification of procedures in order to accelerate the implementation of expenses, while this avenue can be explored, I believe a careful balance needs to be struck between real simplification and the need to abide by the rules in order to safeguard the EUs financial interests.

Once again, I would like to express my thanks to Parliaments negotiating team and, in particular, to the Chair of the Budget Committee, Mr Lamassoure, and to the rapporteurs for the  2010  budget, Mr Surjn and Mr Maka.

I would also like to thank the Councils negotiating team and, in particular, the State Secretary, Mr Lindblad, for the constructive work done during the budgetary process.

I hope that todays debate will be constructive and productive and will lead to a positive vote on the  2010  budget this Thursday.