This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Roger Jones:

Mr President, this report is, in my groups view, of the utmost importance in the development of the democratic legitimacy and the credibility of this House.
Of course, it should not be so.
We should be judged here on the way we carry out our functions, to legislate, to monitor the work of the Commission and the Council and to set the budget of the Union.
Sadly, that function, which I believe has been developed and carried out in a constructive and progressive manner during this parliamentary term, has been obscured by a barrage of criticism in all our countries in recent years.

That criticism which reaches a crescendo in our press with monotonous regularity centres on the system of allowances and expenses accruing to Members of this House.
I want to pay tribute to the two Presidents of our Parliament during this parliamentary term.
Firstly, Klaus Hnsch and now Jos Maria GilRobles have worked to introduce the reforms necessary to restore to this House and its Members a degree of dignity and public acceptability.

This is the first time I have taken the floor for my group on this issue in this chamber.
In the last four and a half years I have been engaged in a continuous round of discussions within my own group and with my counterparts in the other groups of this House to ensure that we can now take the fundamental decisions necessary to solve this problem.
This, in my view, represents the last opportunity in this parliamentary term to end, once and for all, this most damaging public vilification.

I for one hope passionately that tomorrow this House will adopt an appropriate package of reforms.
We all know that there will be some out there who will argue that whatever we do it will not be enough.
Sadly, there are some in this House who, over recent years, have deliberately and dishonestly added to the debate by misrepresenting and misreporting detail and motivation.

Let us therefore do what we believe is right, what we believe is defensible and what we believe our citizens will see as reasonable.
Let us also be entirely open.
It is clear that the issue of the expenses regime could not be solved until we also dealt with the inequality of Members salaries.
The gross disparity between the salaries of Members doing identical jobs in equally trying circumstances in terms of travel, hours, inconvenience, the disruption of family life and so on, is simply not acceptable.
It was of critical importance, therefore, that the intergovernmental conference in Amsterdam in June of last year included a request that the European Parliament bring forward a proposal for a Members Statute.
The Rothley report is our response to that request.

In my groups view it is not acceptable to propose a Members Statute which simply pulls together the varying conditions, immunities and privileges of the  15  national parliaments of the European Union, collates them and then calls the result a statute for Members of the European Parliament.
If this statute is to have some integrity and credibility it must look at the role of a Member of the European Parliament.
We must define a statute which is appropriate for the work we do, the environment in which we work, the travel which is an integral part of our job and the incompatibilities which result.

I want to congratulate Mr Rothley for the extremely effective job he has done in this respect.
I must say that there is probably no single Member in this House who will be satisfied with every aspect of Mr Rothleys proposals and I conclude therefore that he has got it about right.
We cannot dodge the important issue of a Members salary so I propose to deal with it now.
It is simply a fact that Members of this House should be paid the same salary.
In any similar environment with working colleagues coming together it would not be acceptable that salaries with such diversities are commonplace.
It runs counter to all logic and common sense and lies at the base of all our problems.

The big question has been just what is an appropriate salary for MEPs?
Mr Rothleys average of the salary of all our national parliamentarians is an ingenious solution.
It is not by any means the highest salary to be found amongst national parliaments nor the highest salary we could have proposed.
Yet it represents an appropriate salary.
It has the virtue of being transparent and understandable and my group rejects other formulations as being opaque and opening up the criticism that we are manoeuvring for some super, inflated wage.

In order to facilitate the clear problems for those colleagues who would suffer a substantial loss of salary under this system Mr Rothley proposes a transitional period, whereby in the next parliamentary term colleagues who are reelected can choose either the new salary or an existing one.
While some colleagues are unhappy with that transitional phase, and I put myself in that category, it has to be recognised that we are talking in terms of a considerable downward movement of some Members personal income.
Such a transitional period would at least give them the ability to plan their future.
New Members will of course enter this parliament under the new system immediately.

The report proposes that salary should be subject to Community rates of taxation.
This is a controversial proposal which I believe divides most groups in this House, and mine is no exception.
Many Members feel that they wish to continue to pay the same tax rates as those fellowcitizens whom they represent.
Others feel that they will be receiving a European salary and are entitled like others employed directly by the European Union to pay European Union tax rates.
I think this one will come out in the wash, ie it is difficult to predict what the result of the vote in this House will be on this issue.

The other side of the coin of a single salary is a system of reimbursement of travel costs based on actual expenditure.
For me this is fundamental.
I cannot accept that we adopt a common salary and in the same breath continue to allow an expenses regime which is based on anything other than actual cost.
I have no doubt that such a proposal would be entirely unacceptable to our citizens, our voters and indeed to our governments.
Mr Rothleys proposals in this respect are excellent and I hope they will be supported.
The compromise amendment tabled by my group and the Liberal Group with the rapporteurs active support, I believe, adds even greater transparency and clarity to this issue and I hope that it will command support.

The other and major section of this draft Statute is that of the incompatibilities and other elements which define our rights and responsibilities, our mandate and independence as Members of Parliament.
A series of amendments in the names of many groups, mine amongst them, have been tabled which add balance to the report and I hope they too will be adopted.

If tomorrow we succeed in producing a draft statute we will have taken a first and major step to solve this long running and open sore.
It will then be up to the Council to acknowledge the commitment of the Parliament and its Members, to take the very tough decisions which I hope we will do tomorrow.
It will then be up to the Council to indicate that they are prepared to give the green light to the next stage, ie detailed interinstitutional negotiations so that a statute can become a reality before the European elections in June of next year.
Time is short.
Consensus on an issue of this sort is extraordinarily difficult to secure.
We will tomorrow, I hope, secure the majority we need.
Let us hope that in Vienna the Council can do likewise.