This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Lynne Bush:

Member of the Commission.
 Mr President, dear colleagues, Council President, honourable Members, it is a pleasure to discuss with you today our very important but also our very challenging relationship with Belarus.
I think it is important because Belarus lies at a crossroads on our continent; and it is challenging because Belarus own choices for its own future, and for its relationship with the EU, remain unclear.
It still remains to be seen what they will be, so we will have to go on working with them.

Over the last two years, the European Union has sought gradually to engage with Belarus and to encourage further reforms, to build on the, I have to say, modest measures taken so far.
I am convinced that the most productive approach to Belarus will be one based on pragmatism.
Our engagement with that country needs to reflect positive steps by Belarus itself, but we also have to show at least some flexibility.

We have signalled clearly that we would like to see Belarus take its place as a fully fledged participant in the European neighbourhood policy, and that the bilateral track of the Eastern Partnership can be opened to Belarus if it shows through sustained action its wish to make irreversible steps towards democratic reform.

In the meantime, we have shown our goodwill in a number of important ways.
A number of EU highlevel visits to Belarus this year helped strengthen political exchanges.
We launched a dialogue on human rights issues in June  2009 .
The Commission is engaged in a growing number of technical dialogues with Belarus on issues of mutual interest.

Last month, for instance, the External Relations Council decided to extend existing restrictive measures, notably the visa ban and the assets freeze, till October  2010 , given the lack of significant progress on human rights and fundamental freedoms.

However, to encourage democratic progress, the Council also extended the suspension of the restrictive measures.
And the Council also took two further decisions to encourage Belarus to stay on the path of reforms.
I very much welcome that the Commission can now start working on the visa facilitation issue, and on a shadow ENP action plan, the joint interim plan.
These steps provide an incentive for moves towards democracy in Belarus, which I am confident will be well understood, on the one hand, by the government, but, on the other hand, particularly by the people.

The joint interim plan will be developed with both the authorities and civil society in Belarus, and I hope it will open the door to deeper dialogue with Belarus, including on delicate political issues.

My services are preparing recommendations with a view to negotiating directives on visa facilitation and readmission agreements.
Visa facilitation is a priority for the Belarusian people, and I would like to see more Belarusians visiting the European Union, travelling freely, studying and doing business.
But naturally, the final decision on the negotiation directives will lie with the Council.

In addition, the Commission is prepared to increase the allocations of financial assistance to Belarus for the period of  20102013 .
We have proposed a package of macrofinancial assistance worth EUR  200  million, for which we are seeking the approval of Parliament.
The Commission is supporting the idea of the EIB including Belarus in the Banks new mandate.
I really hope this will go further.

However, if Belarus wishes to come closer to the EU, it is clear it must show this through its actions.
There must be an end to political prisoners and politically motivated prosecutions.
Reform of the electoral legislation in line with OSCEODIHR recommendations is sorely needed.
The liberty of the press, freedom of speech and of assembly should be permitted and become the norm.
The European Union also encourages Belarus to abolish or declare a moratorium on the death penalty.
We call for improved conditions for NGOs, civil society and human rights activists.
All these steps could play their part in accelerating the development of a closer partnership between Belarus and the European Union.

In conclusion, therefore, our offer to Belarus is clear.
The European Union is ready to work closely with Minsk and support its political and economic development.
But we would welcome significant positive steps from the Belarus leadership which would allow us to develop our relationship in the same way as we do with other eastern partners if they play their part.