This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Philip White:

Member of the Commission.
 Mr President, I would also like to start by expressing gratitude and feelings similar to those stated by Jan Andersson in his introductory comments on the importance of the EQARF recommendation with regard to the very excellent work and cooperation between the institutions.
The committees and the Commission hope to come to very close firstreading agreement on two important instruments.

Firstly, I would like to show my appreciation of the work of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
I would also like to mention the contribution made by Ramona Mnescu and the Committee on Culture and Education and, on the second item  because we linked together two items  that of the same committees: Culture and Education, and Employment.
I should also like to mention Dumitru Oprea for the contribution of many interesting points which both Jan Andersson and Thomas Mann have already highlighted.

People and Member States have spoken a great deal about the Bologna Process but now more and more is being said about the importance of skills, vocational education and training and the Copenhagen Process.
This year we had the first EuroSkills competition, which will help to increase popularity, attractiveness, quality and exchange of best practices in the very important area of VET.
I would like to make some remarks on the importance of the two instruments which will be voted on in this plenary tomorrow through your reports.

On the EQARF recommendation: vocational education and training were overshadowed by reform processes in Europe, but if we really want to make our Union more competitive and socially cohesive, as outlined in the Lisbon Strategy, it must be about the importance and quality of both general education and vocational education.
The rather technical nature of the first recommendation should not detract from the importance of this instrument.
Quality assurance underpins every VET policy initiative.
It helps to build mutual trust and to modernise VET systems by improving the effectiveness of training.

The Quality Assurance Framework is designed to continuously improve vocational education and training.
It is based on a quality cycle which establishes links between the four phases: planning, implementation, evaluation and review.
It includes ways in which the performance of VET can be monitored and it measures the improvement of VET at both system and provider levels.
The approach to quality assurance is reflected in the general principles contained in the Annex to the  2007  recommendation on the establishment of the European Qualifications Framework, so it is already part of the established EQARF.

Quality, the learning outcomes approach and the qualifications framework go hand in hand.
We need these instruments in one mosaic.
Quality assurance is a precondition for trust between the systems and countries in order to transfer learning outcomes as results.
I think the compromises achieved in the process are very important.
The Commission supports the text as proposed.
Your contributions improve the text; for example, the new deadline set for designing a national approach, an explicit reference to the involvement of local and regional authorities.
In explaining the socalled toolbox nature of the framework, your contribution also helped to clarify the meaning of the original text.

On the other instrument, I would just like to say that it is also necessary if we really want to promote lifelong learning and to facilitate real mobility.
As I like to say, we are citizens, not tourists, in one European Union.
We need this mobility for both learners and for workers so that people can take advantage of the richness offered by different European education and training systems at national or even regional levels.
This is only possible if individuals learning achievements are adequately appreciated when passing from one learning context to another.

This is to be opened much more now by ECVET, the European credit transfer system for VET.
The objective of ECVET is twofold: firstly, to support and promote transnational mobility and, secondly, to give access to lifelong learning to respond to the real needs of individuals, the labour market and our societies.

I do not want to say any more, but I will just assure you that this instrument is and will be compatible with the other one, the European credit system for general higher education (ECTS), and with the various qualification systems which already exist in Europe.
It will be implemented according to the rules and legal instruments of each participating country.

Mr Mann stressed the voluntary participation of the Member States.
This indicates the diversity of our systems, but also maturity in finding common instruments as a result of our work together and willingness to create conditions for compatibility and transferability between different systems.
During this process, we could see how a bottomup approach helped to analyse and form the instruments in both cases.

In this connection, I would also like to say that the compromise achieved is acceptable and very important, not only for the conclusion but also for the satisfaction of all sensitivities or concerns.
I think it even improves the text.
Specifically, I appreciate the contribution on a stronger role for national and regional authorities and also on highlighting the importance of a testing period or results during the process of implementation.
So the Commission supports the proposals and compromise achieved.