This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Frederic Finlayson:

Mr President, I would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs, Mr Brinkhorst and Mr Fabra Valls, for their excellent work during this year.
As Mr Wynn has indicated, this has not been a simple year; indeed, it has been a bruising and difficult year, because we basically had the choice of maintaining those agreements which we have entered into as a Parliament, including the interinstitutional agreement, which, I am delighted to see as a result of our debates today and our procedure on Thursday, will be confirmed, or voting for funds on the transEuropean networks or research and development which would take us outside the limits.
We as a group have always maintained that we should uphold those agreements which we have entered into.

Of course we would have an unsatisfactory budget procedure, I would say, Mr Wynn, because once you have actually agreed in principle to have an austere budget, there is very little to discuss because we are all going to be within a similar margin for manoeuvre  both Parliament and the Council.
In this particular year there are three points I would like to make in summarizing the point of view of the European Peoples Party.

Firstly, we have begun to refine the way in which we use the reserve to achieve Parliaments aims.
We have done this in terms of information policy, where we have seen a remarkable changearound by the Commission in its willingness to come to some radical decisions on how information policy should be developed.
We still have not quite got to the end of that process.
We are supporting that  25   of the funds should remain in the reserve so that in the institutional working group, which is now well established both for general and specific reasons, we are able to come to a proper decision between Parliament and Commission as to how the funds should be operated.

Similarly, in terms of small and mediumsized businesses, tourism and DG XXIII, we have also seen some change once funds are put in the reserve by Parliament on first reading and we come to the second reading.
It may be coincidental perhaps from the Commissions point of view, but so far as Parliament is concerned, it is unlikely that decision would have been taken so quickly had we not also put funds in the reserve.
Again, we are getting a better use of the reserve.
Obviously the third example, Turkey, is a much more sensitive question, and we have not yet been able to get the right balance of confidence between the institutions: between, on the one hand, the Commissions view of the code of conduct and therefore its desire to have its freedom of manoeuvre and, on the other, that of Parliament, which does not yet have the confidence that the Commission will do what we have asked it to do.

This is the first point  that we will continue to use this instrument to be able to ensure that Parliaments priorities are properly asserted in the budget and legislative process.
Secondly, this leads me to the linkage which we have not really made in this budget process, which is in the Intergovernmental Conference.
We should now be able to see some progress in the Intergovernmental Conference, where the Council can see that it has a responsible, rational and disciplined partner in the budgetary process with which to implement the priorities of the European Union.
I would expect some progress to be made in the elimination of the distinction between obligatory and nonobligatory expenditure, once we come to a conclusion, either in Amsterdam or a little bit later next year in the Intergovernmental Conference.

Lastly there is the point that if the European Council is going to continue to put out statements that it wishes to top up money for the transEuropean networks, or wishes to be able to put more money into research and development and then does not provide the new money to go with that, then obviously we are going to continually find ourselves in the kind of situation in which we found ourselves in this budgetary process.
So I would strongly endorse the point in Mr Brinkhorsts resolution  indeed it is an EPP suggestion  that we should have a fiche financire , a financial statement, from the European Council at every single point at which it makes use of funds, so that we know where the funds are meant to be coming from.
Otherwise, I think this House will find that when it comes to the revision of the financial perspectives, enlargement and all these bigger questions which we are heading for, then there can only be trouble in future between the two arms of the budgetary authority.