This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Frederic LaCourt:

Mr President, I am pleased to advise the House that the Commission can accept all the amendments proposed in the recommendation of the Committee on Transport and Tourism relating to the interoperability of the transEuropean highspeed rail system.
These amendments reflect the stance taken by the Commission in its communication to Parliament on the common position, and I am always pleased, as members of the Transport Committee will know, when there can be such ready agreement between ourselves.

The Commission cannot, however, support the amendment from Mr Soulier  Amendment No  12   because it would complicate the interoperability framework which we are establishing, and that contradicts the efforts to achieve simplification.

The House will be aware from our communication that there is much in the common position which causes us concern  even if, like the rapporteur, Mr Castricum, we have some sympathy with the fact that the less ambitious common position of the Council is in part a response to the difficult financial situation of many of the Communitys railways.

That said, however, all governments should avoid reducing the scope of the meaning of interoperability to such an extent that it relates only to the technical capacity of structural subsystems in a way which gives priority to preserving existing national networks.
That cannot be the right approach in a time of change when for every sensible transport and economic reason, we should think continental.
It is very obvious that in the very nature of highspeed train systems, interoperability is absolutely essential for the economic viability of highspeed trains is fundamentally undermined by the delays that otherwise will continue to take place at borders and prevent a meaningful network of highspeed trains across this continent.

Obviously, it is contradictory and fanciful to suggest that the interoperable transEuropean highspeed rail system which is needed can be achieved without requiring the existing integrity of national networks to be extensively adapted.
The Commissions approach, which is, I believe, generally supported in this House, is to strive to achieve an integrated transEuropean highspeed rail system which is capable of competing with other modes of transport on fair terms and in meeting passenger needs.
That, of course, means the needs of all passengers, including those whose mobility is impaired.
The House is in the debt of Mr Watts who drew specific attention to that issue in the course of this debate.

It is Parliaments emphasis on interoperability that makes me welcome the amendments of the Transport Committee which are before the House today, and I hope that they can be supported by all sides of the House.
In particular, I urge Parliament to give backing to Amendments Nos  6 ,  7 ,  8  and  9  relating to the technical specifications for interoperability.
These technical specifications constitute a new and welcome approach in a directive and they apply the proposed directives technical provisions to lay down standards or norms.

The amendments also seek to restore the full force of our original proposal to the environment, operation and user subsystems.
Different national laws on operation and the environment can obviously be a real obstacle to interoperability, so these aspects must be incorporated into the directive, otherwise the good work done in ensuring interoperability of technical standards will be wasted.

Finally, I particularly commend Amendment No  11 , because it reintroduces the concept of consumer protection as an essential requirement in this proposal.

As Mr Watts said, highspeed train interoperability is hardly an inspirational rallying cry.
Although, it must be said that if your train is held up for a long time at a border because of the need to make crew or technical changes, it is possible to develop quite a revolutionary set of feelings about the barriers which still cross our transport system, especially if you are late for a meeting or if it a very hot day and the children are thirsty.
So, highspeed train operability will, as highspeed trains become more extensive, enter the main stream of political vocabulary.
I know Mr Castricum and others will welcome that civilized development.

The delays that are encountered can be ended for highspeed train passengers in the near future.
Then we can make further progress by fostering the interoperability of socalled conventional trains.
I am sure that Mr Castricum and other Members of this House will want to be part of that advance.
I welcome their attitude and their effective work and I hope that it is an attitude that is increasingly shared in practice by Member State governments throughout the whole of the Union.