This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Christoph Corless:

deputising for the author.
 Mr President, we have asked for this debate to examine the background and the purpose of the Green Paper adopted by the Commission on  6  December  2006 .

With the Green Paper, the Commission intends to stimulate a debate over the use of trade defence instruments in Europe: countervailing, antidumping and safeguard measures.
I believe that this is a commendable initiative and I am convinced of the value of this debate.
We need to talk much more about trade policy and about the choices made by the European Commission and by the Council and we need to ensure that decisions are properly discussed before this Parliament.
We need to give this Parliament more power and to make trade policy more subject to democratic scrutiny.

We are all living through a moment which many view as some sort of crisis period.
We are living through a time when Europeans are asking themselves: what does Europe represent and why do we need such a complicated thing as the European Union in the first place?
And, when these legitimate concerns are raised, the importance of the role of a united EU in the globalised world and the importance of having a single voice to represent and defend the interests of  500  million citizens in any negotiation with other trade partners in the world market are vital factors to be considered.

Global trade and its impact on the lives of our citizens and on the future of our businesses, big, mediumsized and small, play an essential role in the anxieties felt by many over what we usually call globalisation.
And, while many of us believe that some of the criticism is no more than cheap demagogy, we must understand those anxieties and we must oppose pure determinism in the way this new world develops, in the way trade takes place, in the way wealth and poverty are distributed.

Europeans who lose their jobs when a company suddenly decides to move eastwards in search of higher profits cannot simply be told that times have changed and that they cannot stand in the way of progress.
They want to know what is going on and they must have their voice heard by those that ultimately decide.

We should not forget that there is more than one recipe for economic growth and trade development.
It is a matter of policy options whether the future of Europe belongs only to huge retail corporations and to importers or whether we can preserve a model compatible with our most essential social and environmental concerns.

Our strong belief in free trade is perfectly compatible with the need to ask for a level playing field.
Even the most peaceful countries in the world  and Europe among them  know that a full commitment to peace does not necessarily mean that armies are abolished and all means of defence are to be destroyed.

So, we say yes to the huge benefits of free trade in our open world and we say yes to the fair implementation of the rules on which this global trade is based.

We welcome the Green Paper, which has the merit of opening a debate on this subject.
Its text and the questions it raises already assume that something must be done to modify the current Community trade defence system.

This might be true.
The recent footwear case has shown that the risk of deadlocks is real.
They are clearly of no benefit to anybody.
Nobody here is blindly defending inefficient European production or supporting a protectionist approach to this highly sensitive matter.
Trade defence reform can be considered, if it is to be made more effective and more transparent.

The Green Paper can be a good starting point if all the stakeholders views are properly taken into consideration and if the Commission and the Council do not entrench themselves behind preconceived ideological positions.
The decisionmaking process can also be improved and we need to ensure that decisions are taken by Member States based on the wellfounded research carried out by independent Community bodies, rather than on the basis of national interests, or, if you prefer, national selfishness.

It is therefore important to improve and reinforce trade defence instruments instead of watering them down.
On the other side, a fresh approach can be made to less traditional threats to a balanced and free world trade.
Practices such as socalled social or environmental dumping need also to be confronted and, when necessary, new means of tackling them should be seriously considered as a matter of Community interest.

The following are the questions I would like Mr Mandelson to respond to tonight.
Firstly, the Doha negotiations have been restarted and I sincerely hope that they will result in a clear success.
In this respect, would it not have been better to wait for the successful conclusion of multilateral negotiations before starting this exercise, which might weaken our position in Geneva?

Secondly, can Mr Mandelson explain why his services are already applying quite a few questionable innovations mentioned in the Green Paper, even before the public consultation has come to an end and without any discussions either before the Council, or before this Parliament?

Thirdly, since the new trade defence system proposed by the Commission assigns a role to all possible interested parties, including those not related to the production of goods falling under the scope of the investigation, do you not believe that the time has come to allow trade unions to lodge a complaint, as foreseen by the WTO antidumping agreement?

I conclude by formally asking Mr Mandelson to provide assurances that the European Parliament will be kept informed at all stages of the process and that the views expressed by its members will be fully taken into account when discussing this highly sensitive matter.