This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Katarina Finlayson:

Member of the Commission.
Mr President, honourable Members, dear friends of football and sport, I am very pleased to represent the Commission here tonight for the debate on football.
I think this constitutes further proof that Parliament is committed to sport.
The support you give to our initiatives for sport is of course both welcome and needed.

I would like to start by congratulating both rapporteurs, Mr Belet and Mr Catania, on the quality of their work.
The two reports treat football from different angles, but they both illustrate the nature of sport, its values, its potential for education, for society and for the economy.

Before speaking on the more detailed aspects of the reports, let me say a few words on the White Paper.
This is going to be an essential piece of work for the future of European sport.
The White Paper on Sport is due to be adopted in July this year.
This will be the culmination of a long process and should be seen in the light of wider political considerations.

Plans for a White Paper are driven by the expectations of sport stakeholders.
They wish to see their concerns addressed by EU policymakers, including the need to better promote sport and to achieve more legal certainty.
The White Paper will cover all sports, and there will be no footballspecific approach.
The ultimate goal of this initiative is first to mainstream sport into other active policies of the Union in order to improve its use as a tool for EU policy.
Secondly, we are aiming to set conditions for improved governance in European sport.
The main topics of the White Paper will be the social and economic role of sport, the organisation of sport and governance issues.

We will pay great attention to Parliaments reports when preparing the White Paper.
The Commission has been following the committees work very closely and this has already given us very useful input.

On Mr Belets report, the Commission welcomes Parliaments initiative on the future of professional football.
We share many of the concerns expressed in the report.
The White Paper will address many of the issues which Mr Belet raises, such as social cohesion, protection of young workers, social dialogue and the free movement of workers.
As your draft report acknowledges, it is extremely difficult to establish a comprehensive European legal framework recognising the specificity of sport, but EU case law does recognise the specificity of sport and the social and educational role played by football in Europe.

Concerning the free movement of workers, for example, the Court held that sport is only subject to Community law when it constitutes an economic activity.
This covers both professional and amateur athletes, and the Court made an exception to the general rule of nondiscrimination for matches which are of purely sporting rather than economic interest, for example, games between national teams.

On the issue of homegrown players, the Commission is very sensitive to the measures proposed by UEFA.
We could share the idea of promoting the training of young people, as well as sending a signal to the clubs that they should invest in the training of young people and not only in transfers of players.
However, we are still considering the question of quotas of locallytrained players, including from the angle of proportionality.

The Commission welcomes Parliaments call for intensified social dialogue in the football sector.
This is a good mechanism for addressing issues such as mobility, work contracts and working conditions.
We have supported the social partners efforts to develop a more structured dialogue where football has taken the lead at European level.

The Commission will continue to support employers and employees organisations in the whole sport sector and it will continue its open dialogue with all sport organisations on this issue.

In conclusion, the Commission will give due and realistic consideration to your recommendations in line with current EU areas of responsibility.
The request for the Commission to draw up an action plan to define the issues to be tackled deserves careful consideration.

On Mr Catanias report, I want to underline first that sport can be a positive force for education, culture and social integration.
But in recent years we have seen unfortunate and growing signs of violence and hooliganism during sporting events.
Two weeks ago sport ministers discussed the issue in Stuttgart.
They underlined the need for improved prevention measures, in particular encouraging cooperation between all those involved, including the supporters.

The Commission has concentrated on promoting exchanges of experience and good practice among Member States so as to develop better police and judicial cooperation.
We have established good working contacts with UEFA and other sporting authorities.
In terms of public order and police control, I think everyone was pleased with the excellent results of football matches during the World Cup in Germany last year.
It shows that good preparation and coordination with other Member States are very effective in preventing crime and especially hooliganism.
The first statistics show that the crime rate did not increase at all during that period.

Council Decision  2002348 EC obliges Member States to establish national football information points.
This is a positive step in improving cooperation between police forces and other bodies that combat footballrelated violence.
The Austrian initiative that Mr Catanias report addresses aims at replacing the existing network of information points with a specific network of national football information points.
These would have access to the personal data of hooligans or risk supporters identified by the different Member States.
The Commission welcomes the reports support for this initiative and takes due note of the concerns expressed on human rights and data protection, to which, as you know, the Commission attaches great importance.

In conclusion, it is a positive result that sport is now truly on the agenda at European level.
The  50 th anniversary of the Rome Treaties is colouring many of our objectives this year, and what a good way it was to celebrate the anniversary with a football match in Manchester two weeks ago.
There could be no stronger signal that sport and sporting values are truly appreciated at the highest political level.