This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Helen LaCourt:

Mr President, there is a certain irony that this is the last debate of  1996  in this Chamber because at the end of  1996  the EU administration in Mostar also comes to an end and I rather suspect we may have to return to debating Mostar in the new year.

I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent and wideranging report.
There are many lessons to be learned from the EU administration in Mostar.
Most of them are political lessons.
The main objective of this report was to look at budgetary and financial questions.
But politics set the framework in which financial management can operate and what this report shows about the EU administration in Mostar is that there was a lack of clarity, a lack of coherence, a lack of consistency and a lack of clearlydefined objectives.
That reveals to me the importance of reaching agreement in the intergovernmental conference on having a unit responsible for common foreign and security policy whose job it is to identify the longterm problems confronting the European Union and strategies for dealing with those problems and also personnel for dealing with these problems.
As Mrs Mller has pointed out one of the problems was that Member States sent people off to Mostar without regard for whether they could do the job that was needed.
That was one of the problems the administration had to face.

There was also clearly a lack of a clearlydefined line of command in Mostar.
As Mrs Mller has also pointed out, every time the presidency changed so did the people responsible for Mostar in the Council of Ministers change.
What we therefore need is somebody responsible for the foreign and security policy who would be the same person regardless of what the presidency is.
That would enable us to have a clearer line of command.
But most importantly, paragraph  9  of the resolution, highlights the fact that the pillar structure of the Maastricht Treaty has left huge gaps and areas where there are doubts about demarcation, about responsibility, about coordination.
We really have to clarify in relation to EU external policy who does what, when and how, and who they are accountable to.
Otherwise we will repeat the mistakes of Mostar.

We should also be drawing attention to Article J. 3  of the Maastricht Treaty which says once a common action has been agreed unanimously in the Council of Ministers, it is possible to use qualified majority voting to carry out that joint action.
One of the problems in Mostar was that at one point it seemed that every decision, down to the buttons on the police uniform, were having to be referred back to the Council of Ministers for unanimous decision.
You cannot operate this sort of administration on that basis.

Mrs Mller also made reference to the financing.
You cannot finance an action by passing the hat round between Member States in the hope that they will come up with money, and more importantly, that they will come up with the money when they say they will come up with the money.
Far too often money did not materialize.
These sort of actions have to be financed out of the EU budget, which will then give the European Parliament its proper role as the authority of accountability.

There is no doubt that Mostar was successful in terms of physical reconstruction.
I have been there and I have seen the extensive progress that was made but it was not successful in terms of political reconstruction.
We must learn the lessons that are clearly set out in Mrs Mllers report.
I personally have tremendous admiration for the work of the people on the ground.
That admiration does not extend to the people they were responsible to.

I will finish by making reference to a famous book in Spanish which you will be familiar with, written by somebody quite closely connected to the man who may next be President of the European Parliament.
It says peace was not possible.
I would say to you in relation to Mostar that political reconstruction was not possible and it will not be possible until we identify very clearly who should do what, when they should do it and how they should do it.
Let us hope we learn those lessons.