This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Amy Finlayson:

Member of the Commission.
 Madam President, the forthcoming  15 th Conference of the Parties indeed offers a unique window of opportunity to improve the conservation and status of a wide number of species affected by trade.

The European Union is one of the major markets for wildlife products.
Therefore, it has a specific responsibility to ensure that wildlife trade is sustainable and that robust international rules are adopted within the CITES Convention to that effect.

It is a priority for the Commission to make sure that international trade is not detrimental to the survival of endangered plants and animal species.
In this respect, the EU has been playing a leading role within CITES and will continue to do so at the next meeting.
The Commission will, in the coming days, adopt a proposal for the EU position in view of this meeting.
The common EU position will then be adopted by the Council.

In its discussions with the Member States, the Commission will make sure that the final common position supports ambitious and sciencebased measures.
I would also like to thank Parliament for its position on the most salient issues which will be discussed at the CITES Conference of Parties.
This resolution sends a clear message which we will need to take into consideration.

While the detailed position of the European Union has not been finalised yet, I can explain the principles and priorities which will guide our decisions on the most sensitive issues to be discussed in Doha.

In the first place, the European Union considers that CITES is an appropriate instrument to regulate trade in all species which are affected by trade.
This is the case for terrestrial as well as for marine species and for species subject to important commercial interests or not.

In that vein, the European Union has tabled proposals to regulate trade in two shark species: porbeagle and spiny dogfish.
It is of the utmost importance that sharks at last receive the protection they deserve after decades of overfishing.

A listing under CITES Appendix II would put an end to unregulated international trade in shark products which is one of the key drivers of their exploitation.
With such listing, trade in those shark products will only take place if they stem from sustainable managed stocks.

The European Union is also proposing to arrange for the protection afforded by CITES to the tiger, which is one of the most endangered species in the world.
 2010  is the international year for tigers and is a perfect opportunity to strengthen the current mechanisms in CITES to allow for a merciless fight against illegal trade in this species and improved transparency in range states on how the tiger populations are conserved.

I would also like to touch upon some of the other important proposals which Parliament has also clearly identified.
The first is Atlantic bluefin tuna.
I have to repeat here that there is no final position on this issue.
What I can tell you is that there is concern within the Commission on the current state of the stock and that we are working hard to find an appropriate proposal that will help properly address this problem at the international level.
The final Commission position will take account of the latest scientific information on the stock and of the outcome of the meeting of the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tuna which took place in November last year.

The second is elephants and the ivory trade.
This has been a longstanding, contentious issue within CITES, especially among African countries themselves.
The Commission is very worried about the high level of poaching for elephants and illegal ivory trade which has been observed recently.

The protection afforded to elephants needs to be reinforced, and the Commission will not support solutions which would present a risk of increasing poaching.
In that context, we believe that it would not be appropriate that the next Conference of Parties agrees on a resumption of the commercial ivory trade.

We also consider that proposals submitted to CITES with a view to downlisting some elephant populations from CITES Appendix I to Appendix II need to be assessed objectively on the basis of the rules agreed within CITES.

Allow me now to say a few words about the proposal by the USA related to the prohibition of the international trade in polar bears.
We are all aware that the ice melting in the Arctic is a dramatic threat for the survival of this species.
This needs to be addressed first and foremost via a very ambitious policy on climate change and I think that the EU has clearly shown the way to go in the matter.
We also believe that it is worth checking how any additional threat to this species might be mitigated.
International trade is limited but might exacerbate the pressure on the species.
Our final position will depend on how the measure proposed by the United States provides real benefits for the conservation of a species.

Finally, on the question of corals, there is no doubt that red and pink corals have been overharvested in many regions of the world.
At the last CITES meeting in  2007 , the European Union backed a proposal by the United States to regulate international trade in both species and we have again cosponsored a USA proposal for COP 15 .
I believe that the European Union should be consistent in this support as the new information available does not show any improvement in the situation.
I would also like to stress that such regulation would by no means result in the prohibition of trade but would just make sure that trade is possible when it is sustainable.