This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Marc McNabb:

Mr President, could I thank the Commission and the Council for the clarity of their statements and could I also begin by making clear what this debate is not about.
It is not about China.

After  1  July Hong Kong will be governed under the principle of one country, two systems, and logically therefore Hong Kong has to be discussed in its own right and must not be used by people as a sort of Trojan horse to discuss and criticize China.

We have requested this debate for two particular reasons which we wish to highlight.
Firstly, after  1  July Hong Kong will no longer be a solely British issue, it will become a concern for the whole of the European Union.
And secondly, as has been said particularly by Commissioner Kinnock, a peaceful transition of Hong Kong is in the interests of all concerned.
Hong Kong is the worlds eighth largest trading entity; it is the regional harbour for southeast Asia; it is the gateway to trade with China and as such is a major motor of economic growth in the world.

A successful transition will benefit us all.
An unsuccessful transition will equally damage us all.
A mishandled transition will, in particular, hamper important political developments in the region  including, it seems to me, Chinas eventual membership of the WTO, which we all hope will happen sooner rather than later.
Of course there is no reason, as has been said by the Council and the Commission, why the transition should not go well.
The Chinese Government has given a clear commitment to uphold the Basic Law and the Joint Declaration, and I would certainly not wish to question the sincerity of that commitment.
Furthermore, the decision to maintain in place the existing Chinese civil servants in Hong Kong is an important vote of confidence in the area, particularly given the high quality of the individuals concerned.

There are of course one or two areas of concern.
The setting up of the provisional legislature was at worst illegal, as the governor claims, or at best unwise, unjustified and unnecessary, as the Americans have claimed.
The intention to repeal or to amend the Bill of Rights Ordinance  which includes provisions of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights  along with the Societies Ordinance  which was aimed after all at dealing with the Triads  as well as the Public Order Ordinance which deals with meetings and demonstrations must cause us some concern about the future of human rights in Hong Kong.
Furthermore, the way these measures are being proposed by a preparatory committee meeting in secret gives us no confidence for the future.

As the chairman of the Hong Kong bar association recently wrote, the rule of law requires that the process of making and repealing law is open, reasoned and in accordance with the law.
I do not believe these proposals match that requirement and therefore it is important, as Commissioner Kinnock has indicated, that elections for a new Legislative Council are held as soon as possible.
Article  70  of the Basic Law says that these elections should be held within three months of the dissolution of the existing Legislative Council.
Given that it will be dissolved at midnight on  1  July  or one minute past midnight on  1  July  then these elections should be held this year and not next year as some in Hong Kong have claimed.

The rule of law of course is vital for the future, and yet a Chinese official commenting on the provisional legislature says it exists under a legal system different from that of the British Hong Kong Legislative Council.
However, the continuing application of Hong Kongs legal system has been promised in every detail and therefore we must demand that the law is applied consistently, in accordance with the Basic Law.

When I was in Hong Kong a number of people observed to me that people involved in cases of litigation were asking for postponement of their cases to after  1  July, implying that they might be getting special favours after that date.
We must not allow this to happen.
There has to be respect for the rule of law.
Similarly Mr Tung told me in conversation that he does not want to see foreign interference in Hong Kong political activity.
I would agree with that.
After all I have said that Hong Kong millionaires should not subsidize the British Conservative Party as they have been doing up to now!
But there is a question about how far this law goes.
Does it include all political activity, in which case trade unions will not be allowed to participate in the international fora, nor with human rights groups.

The best guarantee of human rights is the ability of people to cooperate at an international level.
It is therefore vital that we get a message across today that human rights are not some addon extra, they are an essential prerequisite of a modern economy.
You cannot have economic freedom without political freedom.
That is why it is important that the Council of Ministers speaks with one voice on this issue  not as it has done on some other issues recently  and makes it clear that we are committed to ensuring the future prosperity of Hong Kong.
That is why I welcome Commissioner Kinnocks statement that the Commission will monitor the transition in all its formats.
That way we can ensure that all of us benefit from the continuing prosperity in Hong Kong.