This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Frederic MacLeod:

Madam President, Members will recall that we first debated my report on lobbyists in January  1996 .
The Socialist Group and the Christian Democrats fundamentally failed to agree, and the result was that the report was sent back to committee.
The public reaction to our failure to institute regulations was very negative and the result was that by July  1996  I produced a new, amended report taking into account some of the considerations and concerns that Members had about the initial report which was adopted by this House with only one Member voting against, if I recall correctly.

That was essentially a framework document to be filled out and it was agreed that there would be three further reports at least: a first report, on a code of conduct, which is what we have in front of us today; a second report, on the control of interest groups, which my colleague, Mr Spiers, is drawing up and is currently before the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities; and a third report, on Parliamentary assistants, that Mr Lehne is drawing up, which is also under discussion in the Rules Committee.
This then is the first of these three reports, further elaborating the report that was adopted in July  1996 .

I am tempted in this context to give the same reply as the apocryphal doctoral student who, when asked to explain his thesis, said:  It is selfevident , but I shall not succumb entirely.
The main parts were approved all but unanimously by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure.
It states that lobbyists shall state their interest or the interest they represent when meeting with Members of Parliament, staff or officials, shall not claim any formal relationship with Parliament in any dealing with third parties, shall not circulate for profit to third parties copies of documents obtained from Parliament and shall comply strictly with the provisions of Annex I, Article  2 , second subparagraph which states that Members shall accept no gifts  ie.
lobbyists may not henceforth offer any gifts to Members.
The lobbyists also need to satisfy themselves that any assistance provided in the context of these provisions is declared in the appropriate register.
There is an amendment here by Mr Donnelly which I shall be accepting, to tighten up that provision, but it does give them some responsibility to ensure that their actions are appropriately reported.

It also says that they need to comply, when recruiting former members of the institutions, with the provisions of the Staff Regulations.
At the moment the Staff Regulations in this regard are an empty vessel.
There are provisions in the Staff Regulations requiring certain categories of former employee to seek the permission of the institution to take jobs in other sensitive areas, but currently there are no members of staff so designated.
This may, however, be something that will change in the future.
The same applies to Amendment No  10  in which we ask lobbyists to observe any rules laid down by Parliament on the rights and responsibilities of former Members of the House where I understand the Quaestors are looking into this matter.
It also says that if a lobbyist wants to employ a Members assistant, he has to seek the permission of the Member concerned.
That seems selfevident.

Finally, it concludes that any breach of the Code of Conduct may lead to the withdrawal of the pass issued to the person concerned and, if appropriate, his firm.
It is only if Parliament is willing to use this sanction that we shall actually be able to tighten up the provision.

There are two further amendments which are likely to encounter some opposition in the House tomorrow.
One is Amendment No  12  which requires lobbyists to submit each year a report on their activities, with a view to securing the extension of their passes.
There is some concern that this is going to lead to vast reams of paper being produced.
I understand that there are groups in this House that will not be supporting it.
If we were going to support it, I would probably recommend Mr Ephremidis amendment which asks that lobbyists state what particular assistance they have given to Members; however, the reference in that amendment to gifts is inappropriate, because we have already seen that gifts are illegal under our current provisions.

The final point is with respect to Amendment No  1  which says that only registered assistants working exclusively as assistants shall have access to Parliament under the same conditions as staff of the Secretariat or the political groups.
At the moment our Rules state that Members assistants have privileged access.
The Socialist Group would like to see the immediate closure of this loophole which actually leads to a situation where Members assistants can simultaneously work for lobby groups or even lobbyists themselves, but I understand that the PPE would prefer it to be included in the Lehne report which deals with the entire issue of Members assistants when that is voted on.
We expect them, if that is the case, to deliver that commitment, otherwise we shall create not an obstacle to misuse but a fast track for it by allowing lobbyists to shortcircuit the system by employing our own assistants to do work that we are preventing them from doing.

I commend my report to the House and hope that it will be supported tomorrow.