This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Victor Corless:

Member of the Commission.
 Mr President, firstly I would like to express my thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Braghetto, and to the Committee on Fisheries for this report, which raises the issue of the recovery plan for bluefin tuna.

The Eastern Atlantic and Mediterranean bluefin tuna is a key stock for the Community.
As confirmed by scientific advice, this bluefin tuna stock is now at high risk of collapse.
All the states involved in this fishery have agreed to the need for urgent measures to ensure the sustainability of the bluefin tuna stock and of the fishery.

I am convinced that the recovery plan adopted by the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas in  2006  represents a realistic chance for the gradual recovery of bluefin tuna if it is fully respected.
Therefore, decisive and effective action is immediately necessary at Community level.
The speed of the implementation of the ICCAT recovery plan is an absolute must, both for conservation reasons and to safeguard the common fisheries policys credibility and the credibility of the EU fishermen themselves.
The objective is to have the proposal agreed at the November Council.

During discussions held in the context of the Council preparations, many changes were introduced to the original proposal, some of which go in the direction of your suggested amendments.
I am sure that we are in agreement on the objectives of urgently taking measures to eliminate overfishing and to ensure strict compliance with ICCAT measures, in order to bring the bluefin tuna stock to sustainable levels.
This will, at the same time, improve the profitability of the fishing industry in the long term.
Apart from the benefits to industry, there is also an international political commitment that we are obliged to fulfil.

Turning now to the report, I appreciate and share the Fisheries Committees view that the Community needs to address the excess fishing effort of its fleet.
The Commission also considers that the annual fishing plan is an effective instrument to avoid overfishing because of the overcapacity of the Community fleet.

In this context, the Commission can accept Amendments  1 ,  2 ,  7  and  8  concerning the establishment of annual fishing plans to ensure a balance between the fishing effort of the Community fleet and the quotas.
A relevant provision on this issue has been introduced in the Presidency compromise.

In addition, the Commission asks the Member States concerned to include in their operational plans a reduction of their fishing capacity, either temporary cessation or scrapping, to ensure that their quotas for  2008  and the following years are fully respected.
I recognise that we are asking the industry to make considerable sacrifices, but these are necessary to ensure the longterm sustainability of the fisheries, fleets and coastal communities concerned.
The choice is between shortterm sacrifice and the collapse of the stock.

Moreover, I totally agree with you that, in order to alleviate the socioeconomic impact that will be caused by the reduction in fishing activity, it is necessary to ensure financial compensation for the industry.
A provision on the related financing measure in line with Amendment  5  has also been introduced in the Presidency compromise.
I am aware that there are other concerns.
I share many of those concerns and know that they too will need to be addressed.

With respect to Amendment  3 , let me state first of all that I am well aware that the number of cages for tuna fattening has increased greatly since  1990  and that their capacity exceeds the total sum of the TAC available.

ICCAT has now adopted a strict regulation in order to ensure the sustainable development of farming activities for bluefin tuna.
The next step will be to regulate the number of farms.
The Commission fully supports the adoption of the recommendation made by the ICCAT Working Group on Capacity in July  2007 .

This recommendation proposes the implementation of a freeze on boat fishing capacity and farming capacity for bluefin tuna.
We need to wait for the final results of the ICCAT discussion being held in Antalya this week.
That is the reason why the Commission cannot accept, at this stage, the amendment concerning the limitation of farming capacity.

On the derogations relating to fishing areas and minimum size, I would like to remind you of the context within which such derogations were accepted by ICCAT.
All contracting parties have agreed these derogations as part of the package on the recovery plan.
These derogations were granted for artisanal fleets and for some seasonal fleets because their impact on catches is insignificant.
In addition, these derogations include a series of strict conditions, such as a limited number of vessels, limited catches and designated ports.
Having said that, the recovery plan may be revised in  2008  on the basis of new scientific advice or weaknesses detected in its implementation.

At this stage, the Community has a responsibility to ensure that the recovery plan is incorporated in Community legislation to ensure its full implementation.
In this context, I cannot accept Parliaments amendments on the deletion of the derogations, that is Amendments  4  and  6 , or Amendments  12  and  13  on the renaming of the plan, the modification of the EC quotas and the introduction of a new payback system.
These amendments are not in line with the recovery plan adopted by ICCAT and the ICCAT rules on payback.

Similarly, I cannot accept Amendment  10  regarding traps, since the proposal does not include measures to address this issue.
For the first time, the recovery plan regulates trap activity and this will, in future, enable an evaluation of the impact of this fishing activity on the stock.

Regarding Amendments  9  and  11  relating to the harmonisation of sanctions and the possible closure of a national fishery of a Member State where it fails to respect its reporting requirements, let me say that, whereas we fully understand and share the spirit behind this proposal, we cannot accept the amendment in this context, as the proposal does not include measures that address the issue.
The issue is one of general policy and the Commission will examine it in the forthcoming  2008  reform of the control framework of the common fisheries policy.

We consider that documentation and transmission of information to the Commission at set times is a crucial element for the success of the bluefin tuna recovery plan, and it is also a prerequisite if we are to monitor the uptake of the EU quota in real time.
The Commission has therefore opened infringement procedures against all seven Member States which take part in the bluefin tuna fishery for shortcomings in data transmission.

In conclusion, let me state that we are deeply concerned about the overshoot of the quota by some Member States, which undermines the credibility of the Community at international level and jeopardises the success of the bluefin tuna recovery plan.

At the meeting of the Compliance Committee, which took place in Antalya on  8  and  9  November, the contracting parties  notably the United States and Canada  criticised the lack of compliance with ICCAT rules.
As expected, the European Community was severely criticised for overshooting the TAC in  2007 .

At the same time, the contracting parties acknowledged the difficulties for the European Community fleet in adapting to the reality of the recovery plan, which entered into force in  2007 , and welcomed the European Community proposal on a specific payback regime.
The Compliance Committee has adopted a specific recommendation concerning a payback system for the overshoot of the EC quota in  2007 , which comes to  4   440  tonnes, based on an EC proposal.

In accordance with this recommendation, the overharvesting of the European Communitys quota in  2007  will result in a yearly deduction of  1   480  tonnes from its annual quota for the period  20092011 .

In addition, the Compliance Committee agreed that the figure for the European Community was provisional and may be subject to review and eventual adjustment as a result of ongoing investigations.
This recommendation will be adopted by ICCAT during its plenary session on  18  November.

Nevertheless, we have to reassure the ICCAT parties that the European Community will do its utmost to ensure that quotas allocated to the vessels of our Member States are scrupulously monitored by those Member States and by the European Commission, in order to ensure respect for the quota set for  2008  and the forthcoming years.

Following the adoption of this regulation, the Commission is resolved to work closely with the Member States to ensure and closely monitor the full implementation of the bluefin tuna recovery plan.
The Community Fisheries Control Agency will also play an active role.
The agency has started the preparatory work for the coordination of control and inspection activities by Member States, with a view to having everything in place for the  2008  bluefin tuna season.