This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Annette Reid:

Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are dealing with yet another chapter in the long saga of leghold traps.
I should like to concentrate on three aspects: the question of animal welfare, the institutional question of the decision within the European Community and relations with the World Trade Organization  WTO.
Finally I shall refer to the question of the indigenous people and the line taken by Commissioner Sir Leon Brittan.

As regards the cruelty to animals dossier, there is no doubt that these leghold traps are cruel and do cause inhuman suffering.
That is why Parliament has repeatedly called for their abolition and that is why the European Union has had, since  1991 , a regulation in force banning them.

As long ago as last century Charles Darwin stated that the use of this type of trap and this type of killing were incompatible with civilized societies.
That was a hundred and thirty years ago!
We now have to decide whether an agreement on humane trapping standards might be a good way of reducing cruelty to animals in the world.
The answer would be yes provided we had a good agreement.
Unfortunately, this text is a poor one and does not go far enough.
That is certainly not the fault of the officials who negotiated it; they were rather, as we say in Portuguese bound hand and foot because of what their boss, Sir Leon Brittan, wanted and they had to reach an agreement at any price.

There is no shortage of examples in the text.
In the point on fatal traps the European experts proposed on behalf of the Commission a time of  30  seconds to kill the animal.
The agreement sets a time of  5  minutes.
That is a long time  a very long time to die in agony  and it is a concession which increases the Commissions figure by a factor of  10 .

But the great problem with this agreement is that it is not selective enough in the classification of traps in relation to the standards laid down.
I do not want now to go into the type of standards, which in some cases I regard as fairly low.
To define a criterion for the approval of each type of trap  as this report does, as a function of the results, not for  80   of all animals trapped, but merely for  80   of the animals of the species targeted by the said trap  is an insult to the intelligence.

These traps are by definition nonselective.
They catch all types of animals which suffer equally, even though not targeted, but simply because they have been unfortunate enough to roam where they were not supposed to roam or to drink water where they were not supposed to.
But the most glaring example of the Commissions bad faith is in the subtle amendment it made to Article  4  ( 2 ) in Annex I, where in the version agreed in January for the present agreement there is a marked difference.
I shall in fact read the January version in the original English which said: conventional steel jaw leghold retaining traps to be prohibited within four years of the entering into force of this agreement.

That, ladies and gentlemen, has disappeared from the version currently under discussion and has been replaced with unilateral statements by the countries wishing to accede to this agreement.
That is a clear concession to the United States of America!
What powers has the European Union to control the unilateral statements of the countries who wish to accede to this agreement?
There is a lot more which could be said about the rest of the text, for example, Russia, in its unilateral statement, asks for money.
The talk in the corridors is of ECU  30  million.
We are going to buy the Russians for ECU  30  million.
There is more that could be said, but instead I shall put a question.
What about the United States?
If the United States had not signed this agreement and took Europe to the WTO, what would we do?
We should be in the same position as we are today.

I should like now to mention the institutional pact.
The Commission, at the instigation of Sir Leon Brittan, blocked the adoption in  1995  of the regulations implementing Regulation No  91 .
In January  1996 , by means of a letter from two officials, it advised the Member States not to apply the legislation in force.
So can one simple letter prevent the application of legislation approved by the Commissions and by the Council?
Where is the Rule of Law, Sir Leon Brittan?

In  1996  a new version was submitted which Parliament rejected on first reading.
The Council never resubmitted it.
In January  1997  an attempt was made at a Council meeting to pass a list of countries, including Canada and Russia, when there was no international agreement and these countries had not banned jaw leghold retaining traps, in clear violation of the European legislation.
The Council quite rightly rejected this kind of approach.

It is now time to mention the WTO.
I should like to say, however, that the Commissioner stated during the ratification process, that no further European legislation was at stake with accession to the WTO, other than the legislation mentioned at the time  and I supported that.
Now it is the jaw leghold retaining traps which are at stake, the hormones in beef and who knows, Mr Commissioner, what it might be tomorrow?

I should like now to mention the indigenous people.
From the outset I did try to obtain a regime for the indigenous people; they are assured that this Parliament will endeavour to find a solution which reconciles our legitimate right to demand less cruelty in the world with satisfying the legitimate need of those communities to make a living.
Unfortunately, I did not find any parties to instigate social dialogue either in Europe or in Canada.
But I remain available for such talks.

Thank you, Mr President, for bearing with me; I ask my colleagues to express their views by rejecting this bad agreement.