This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Roger LaCourt:

Madam President, it is customary on these occasions to congratulate the rapporteur on his work.
What is perhaps less customary is the fact that I actually mean it when I congratulate the rapporteur on his work.
This is a good, thoughtful and thorough report.
I would particularly like to thank the rapporteur on the way he went about producing his report and the cooperation he showed with others in the committee.
The report has taken on board many of the observations we made in discussion in committee.
That has meant that we have managed to keep amendments to the minimum and thereby kept the cohesion of this report.
I think that is important.
I should like to thank him for that.

This report emphasises the importance of Hong Kong to the European Union and indeed to the global economic system, as we have seen in the last few weeks.
But our main message has got to be, quite frankly, that we have to recognise that the handover of power has gone very well.
The worst fears of many people, expressed in this Chamber, have not been realised.
The idea of one country, two systems appears to work.
There has been political, press and religious freedom.
There has not been widespread corruption as was feared.
Indeed the high quality of the Hong Kong civil service continues to shine through.
Of course there are areas of concern and Mr Cushnahan has outlined some of them.

There have been questions about political influence being used for appointments to statutory advisory bodies such as the housing authority.
That is an area that needs to be watched.
There were rumours that Chinese security advisors were to be installed in the Chief Executives office.
I am glad to see that was denied by the government.
There was the attack on Radio Television Hong Kong by a member of the Chinese Peoples Political Consultative Conference.
While the Chief Executive, Tung Cheehwa was somewhat dubious in his response, President Jiang Zemin was very clear in condemning any influence in Hong Kong affairs.
I am very glad to see also that the new guidelines that will be introduced for Radio Television Hong Kong will be based on those applying to the BBC and other international broadcasters, thus helping guarantee its neutrality.

Our main concern was always about the existence of the provisional legislature.
We must recognise the positive step forward reflected by the elections to the Legislative Council.
We should celebrate the high turnout in those elections and the fair way in which they were conducted, although we should still register our concern at the severe reduction of the franchise in the functional constituencies and the possibilities for abuse of corporate voting in the functional constituencies through the registration of shell companies.
We therefore look forward to full democracy in Hong Kong as soon as possible.

There have been concerns about some of the decisions taken in the Hong Kong courts, which Mr Cushnahan describes in detail in his report.
One particular issue is the question of the immunity of state bodies from prosecution and whether this applies to the New China News Agency.
That worry has been accentuated by the case of Emily Lau, who has been involved in dispute for nearly  12  months with the New China News Agency.

The precise status of the New China News Agency should be clarified as a matter of priority.
The rule of law, as Mr Cushnahan has said, is crucial to the future of Hong Kong.
One further area which will need to be watched carefully is the need for the new Legislative Council to pass legislation on issues such as subversion and treason under Article  23  of the Basic Law.
How Hong Kong handles that will be a key to the continuing success of one country, two systems.

The best sign of the success of one country, two systems has been that Hong Kong has been able, so far, to weather the Asian crisis, and to do so without interference from China, but with support from China.
I would be interested to hear Commissioner Brittans observations on that aspect.
Clearly Hong Kong has to have autonomy in its own economic affairs but it also has to have the support of China.

Finally, I would endorse Mr Cushnahans remarks about granting visafree access to residents of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.
I believe this would be an important step forward in developing greater commercial ties between the European Union and Hong Kong.

In conclusion, I would say so far so good; in fact, better than we had hoped for.
Let us hope that we can continue to work closely with the authorities of Hong Kong to develop a better future for the residents of Hong Kong and to develop Hong Kongs important status as a keystone in the Asian economy.