This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Alastair Bauer:

Mr President, we have a group of five reports and I should like to congratulate all the rapporteurs.
They have all done a very good job in producing reports which make an important contribution to this issue.

I should like first of all to focus on the justice and home affairs area which is covered by Mr Bontempis and Mr Wiebengas reports.
They make a valuable contribution by stressing the need for the European Union to achieve a greater degree of harmonisation and of cooperation in this area.
It is an area that has been sadly neglected compared with the great strides which the Union has made in harmonisation in the fields of economic and financial policy, agriculture, transport, the environment, etc.
This area of justice and home affairs and freedom has lagged far behind.
It is not that we want every country to adopt the same legal and judicial system  that would be absurd.
Indeed, even within certain regions of existing Member States there are longstanding differences in the way that the law is administered and operated.

We need much greater cooperation.
We are facing a situation where we have a proliferation of organised crime on an international basis.
The criminals do not worry about issues of subsidiarity and frontier controls and whether the niceties of national law versus European law are properly abided by  they operate in whatever way makes them the biggest profit and achieves their objectives.
Unless we are able to establish a proper system of international cooperation in this area then we will not be able to deal effectively with these issues.

This is also important in order to protect the rights of individuals.
There is a tremendous disparity in criminal and indeed in civil law.
There are many activities which are criminal in some countries but not in others.
Sentencing policy varies widely.
This is becoming more and more important as greater numbers of our citizens and residents of the European Union are working, living and carrying out their activities in other Member States.

It is unacceptable that somebody should have fewer legal rights if they are charged with an offence in a country other than their own than they would in their own country.
Furthermore, problems have arisen of people being held for long periods without trial because of bureaucratic delays caused by translation problems and because of the lack of proper legal aid.
These matters must be tackled and resolved, and the reports suggest some very important and useful ways in which that can be done.

Mr Nassauers report on Europol has the balance right.
We must have effective collaboration between national police forces, and the Europol Convention provides for the proper and effective exchange of information to enable the police forces of our Member States to cooperate and to act more effectively by proper interchange of information, ideas and practices.
Without this, police forces operating in the sphere of law and order will be working with one hand tied behind their backs compared with the criminal organisations.

One thing Parliament has always stressed from the very inception of Europol is that any international police organisation  perhaps in the course of time with operational powers, however limited they may be  can only be allowed to exist if there is a proper system of democratic control and accountability  just as we would expect proper democratic accountability by our own national police forces.
We must respect the principle that policing can take place only with the consent of the communities being served.
Police forces that see themselves as some kind of external force coming in to impose rules and operations which are not acceptable to the community at large will fail.
We need good effective policing with the consent of the communities.

Finally, Mrs dAnconas report on the complex and vexed area of drugs balances very difficult issues: the question of not condoning the use of dangerous drugs but, at the same time, recognising that a purely punitive approach to this issue will never succeed and that there must be proper emphasis on education, health matters and so on.
It is a good balanced approach to this issue.