This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Nancy LaCourt:

Mr President, I am grateful to the European Parliament for its unswerving commitment to the Commissions efforts to promote schemes for small and mediumsized enterprises, and in particular for its contribution to the Commissions  1997  report on the coordination of Community activities to assist SMEs and the craft sector.

It is vitally important for small and mediumsized enterprises to be able to take advantage of the opportunities offered by Community programmes to maximise their potential for innovation and development and above all job creation, an imperative necessity and our common objective.

I want to thank Mrs Thyssen for her motion for a resolution and her report, which I regard as extremely useful and constructive texts.
I also extend those thanks to the other Members who contributed to this report, Messrs Cellai, Peter, Adam and Robles Piquer and Mrs Ferrer.

The Commissions report presents a structural review of Community measures for the benefit of small and mediumsized businesses and the craft sector, and illustrates the results achieved through the coordinated approach adopted by the Commission to ensure that all Community policies take account of the interests of SMEs and facilitate their access to Community programmes.

As always, and especially on questions relating to SMEs, the European Parliament has a vital contribution to make and it comes at just the right time, since negotiations have started on the proposals to reform the Structural Funds for the  20002006  programming period, and also on new programmes like the fifth framework programme for research and technological development and the new Leonardo programme.

Clearly, effective coordination will bring tangible advantages for SMEs.
Progress has already been made, as is underlined by the Thyssen report, but the Commission is committed to achieving even better results in the future.
I would also like to mention the role of the group of Commissioners, chaired by Commissioner Papoutsis, who are looking at small and mediumsized businesses and the spirit of enterprise.

Our intention is to make further improvements in the coordination of the Commissions activities as regards programmes and measures to benefit SMEs.
I can assure you that the Commission is committed to achieving that aim, and we broadly agree with the recommendations set out in the motion for a resolution.

In particular I want to stress the crucial importance of three questions: first, the need for the Community definition of small and mediumsized enterprises to be used in all the Community and national programmes at European and national levels; secondly, the importance of facilitating SME access to the programmes, particularly in the context of the Structural Funds and the research and training programmes; and thirdly, just as important, the need for small and mediumsized enterprises to be more involved in planning the programmes that affect them by having their own direct representation.

I have a few more points to add.
The risk of a massive increase in the number of regulations has been mentioned.
That is a risk we must always bear in mind, but I would point out, to Mr Souchet in particular, that simplifying the regulations, with the needs of SMEs most in mind, is exactly what the BEST task force and the SLIM groups (Simpler Legislation and Internal Market) are working on  and they are beginning to show the first concrete results, as Parliament is well aware.

Mr Cellai raised a burning question  taxation  which often turns out to place a disproportionate burden on SMEs in terms of the level of taxes they pay and the paperwork involved.
We now have a good example of how certain Commission activities, although not geared expressly to small and mediumsized companies in so many words, are actually geared to them in substance.
I refer to the fight against damaging tax competition, which the  15  Member States have decided to undertake on a proposal from the Commission.
Well, the fight against damaging tax competition is intended, once certain tax niches and tax havens have been closed, to allow Member States to lower their total internal fiscal pressure.
It is usually large businesses that can take advantage of those niches and havens while small ones are unable to, but this time small businesses will be the ones which benefit most from the reduced fiscal pressure resulting from the fight against damaging tax competition.
I will not go into the Commissions ideas about the possibility of applying VAT at reduced rates to highly labourintensive activities, an idea supported by Parliament but on which the Member States are still reserving their final position.

I would like to make my final observation on a point underlined by several Members, namely the position of SMEs in relation to structural fund programmes.
Aware of the lack of detailed information, the Commission has launched a thematic evaluation on the impact of the structural funds on SMEs.
The final results will be available before the end of  1998 .
The first results of this evaluation confirm previous appreciations, that is share of structural funds dedicated to SMEs and typology of measures.
Therefore, we cannot really say that the information is not available, although it may not be detailed enough in terms of distinguishing the size class of the beneficiaries, which is important.

Moreover, the Commission has undertaken an analysis of the financial engineering schemes for some countries which will be used for guidance for future programmes.
It has to be borne in mind that Member States are primarily responsible for the evaluation and analysis of the performance of their Structural Funds programmes and they should be encouraged to provide more detailed and accurate data on SME participation.
The study which I mentioned a minute ago will not lie on a shelf gathering dust.
Its purpose is not only to gather useful data but also to make recommendations for the next programming period on how to improve SMEs measures and their implementation in future programmes.

Finally, I should like to mention also the fact that the Commission should issue guidelines in  1999  to help Member States in the preparation of their future programmes to be cofinanced by the Structural Funds.
In this context, a very special focus will be placed on supporting SME development and entrepreneurship.