This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Mary Merx:

Madam President, I wish to begin by congratulating the two rapporteurs, Mrs Dhrkop Dhrkop and Mr Viola, on having produced guideline resolutions which are just that.
They are guidelines and they have strenuously resisted what so often happens if people try to turn the guidelines into some sort of advance and premature first reading.
What we have here is a very clear view of principle.

I merely want to refer to a couple of paragraphs in Mrs Dhrkop Dhrkops excellent report and underline them, in particular recital D where she emphasizes that what we have to concentrate on in the budget procedure is the whole question of the collection of revenues so as to avoid wastage.
We spend so much time dealing with expenditure that we have to prioritize the proper collection of own resources as a major, fundamental and integral part of the budget procedure.

The other point I would highly commend her for is the incorporation in paragraph  9  of her report of the response to the challenge laid down by Commissioner Liikanen some two years ago about the policies of critical mass.
Today in the guidelines motion he has Parliaments response, and we hope that, having had Parliaments response, we get preliminary draft estimates that reflect that response in a way that we can see.
If you read paragraph  9  carefully, Mrs Dhrkop has there accepted the challenge that it means looking at those policies which should be continued and even reinforced, but also at those which should no longer be thus considered.
So it has bitten the bullet, it is a serious response, and one which I commend.

For the rest of my time, I want to turn to Mr Violas report which, again, is excellent.
The points I would underline in his report are as follows: in paragraph  4  he makes the very important point about the European civil service.
I hope when we are talking about the European civil service as we proceed into the detail of the budget, we will perhaps extend some of the thoughts set out there and talk about both appointment and promotion being exclusively actions which should take place on merit.
This should be the only criterion for appointment and promotion within the European civil service.
I note and welcome in paragraph  5  the view that no new post ought to be created in  1999 , and I hope that, as we progress into the budgetary procedure, the caveat expressed there is one that can be dropped.

I commend very fully all the points that are laid out in clear chronological sequence in paragraph  8  of the report, where there are a whole series of matters on which this House, as part of the budgetary authority, needs further information.

I particularly turn to paragraph  9   property policy.
Today, as has already been recalled, is  1  April.
I received, I suppose, what has been the most complicated April Fools Day hoax in the form of what purports to be a report to the European Parliament from the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, a report that would have us believe that something like ECU  36  million is going to be spent on converting the Belliard I and II buildings to meet their purpose.
I say to them: nice try on April Fools Day but we look forward to receiving the genuine report on what should be made available for the conversion of those buildings.

Yet there are serious challenges before us in the buildings area, and I am sure that, in the approach that Mr Viola is taking, he will continue with the same level of serious scrutiny as we have had in the past.

The only area that I see seriously lacking in the Viola report  but I think we can take it for granted  is in relation to communications policy.
We have lots of discussions coming up on communications policy.
I just want to add one thought, and I say it with great respect to you, Madam President, as something you can take back to the Bureau.
I am increasingly of the view that to understand what Parliaments Bureau actually does and decides you have to be a Kremlinologist to read their minutes and get any meaning out of them.
So at this time when we are talking about communications policy, you can perhaps translate into the Bureau minutes the same degree of clarity, lucidity and transparency that this Parliament is trying to instil into the European Central Bank.
It would be a great service to parliamentary democracy.