This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by James Green:

Member of the Commission.
Madam President, I should like to thank Parliament for having organised this debate on breast cancer.
The very detail of the questions shows the wide range of issues involved.
I will not try to address every question separately; that would be an impossible task, given my limited speaking time.
However, I would be very happy to provide detailed information at a later stage.

I shall therefore focus on three key areas, but first I should like to acknowledge the magnitude of the problem, already mentioned by many speakers.
Every year,  270   000  women are diagnosed with breast cancer in the European Union.
That affects their lives and the lives of their families and it has a very significant medical, social and economic cost.

The first issue I should like to touch upon  and it has already been addressed  is how far we have come since the European Parliaments resolution of  5  June  2003 .
It is true that the resolution set out some ambitious targets for the Member States to reach by  2008 , notably a  25  reduction in mortality and a reduction in differences between breast cancer survival rates in the Member States to  5 .
I have to admit that it is too early to know exactly how much progress has been made.
Member States have committed themselves to report to the Commission on the situation by the end of this year, three years after the adoption of the Council recommendations.
The Commission will therefore produce an implementation report in  2007 .
I can assure you that the lack of information from some Member States will not delay production of the report.
Instead, the report will indicate the Member States that have not provided the information.

There are already signs that the resolution and other actions have had positive effects and started to make a difference.
We expect progress on aspects such as the exchange of best practice models to facilitate application in different parts of the EU and the guidelines for screening diagnosis, delivering some very significant reductions in breast cancer mortality.
In addition to providing the results on mortality, we hope to have the data to be able to set out a clear picture of the timeframes involved and developments as regards inequalities.

The second general area I should like to touch upon is research.
Breast cancer will feature strongly under the Seventh Framework Programme.
This will cover both the detection of the disease and, crucially, the causes  in other words, how it can be prevented.

As regards detection, research is focusing notably on improving breast cancer screening and alternatives to conventional mammography, in order to improve early detection.
Examples already supported under the Sixth Framework Programme include mammography with molecular imaging or the application of positron emission tomography  PET  specifically designed for breast cancer examination.
Early detection is, of course, crucial in ensuring successful treatment, but that is still treating the disease rather than the causes.
I am therefore very pleased that work on the causes of cancer is a priority in the Research Framework Programme.
That work will cover the three key areas of genetics, environment and lifestyle.

Thirdly, the issue of campaigns: these can play a very important role in public health issues, in raising awareness of key issues by private individuals, public authorities and decisionmakers, as well as, of course, health professionals.
Not only does it enable individuals to help and protect themselves, it also puts pressure on the decisionmakers to give priority to this problem, which they sometimes fail to do.

The European Parliaments  2003  resolution has been an effective part of an ongoing campaign to increase awareness.
Awarenessraising among women on the importance of screening has been a key part of European action against cancer.
Such campaigns can be supported under our public health programme.

In conclusion, we all agree that breast cancer has to be tackled and best practice examples show that significant results can be achieved.
However, we have to understand that it is a continuous process.
We must never become complacent, even if we are encouraged by the initial success of some of those efforts and initiatives.
A coherent and collaborative approach is needed, covering in particular the three aspects I highlighted earlier.

Of course, we have to admit that most of these actions are principally for the Member States, but the European Union can and will provide support  as in the case of research  where possible.
As an indication, I can refer to future support for breast cancer screening guidelines, which will continue under the current and future health programmes, the European Council network and the European Union network for information on cancer in Europe.
A new project that has now been shortlisted answers some of the questions relating to the extension of the guidelines.
The European Union guidelines will be updated to cover not only the setting of standards for breast cancer nurses but also the specification for specialist breast units.
They will set the standards, principles and benchmarks to which Member States will have to adjust their breast cancer screening, training and treatment.
These initiatives will cover the need for information and consultation in the new Member States as well and will help to integrate the relevant experts within existing networks.

We must never forget that each year more than a quarter of a million women depend on such action.
They and their families depend on the priority we and the Member States will give to such an important and serious problem.
We must not let them down.

(Applause)