This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Amy Brown:

Mr President, on behalf of my colleague Mr Flynn, I would like to start by congratulating Mr Menrad for his report and by thanking the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs for its rapid work on the draft resolution.
We fully share the views expressed on the European Employment Pact.
In addition, Mr Menrad has stressed the need to mainstream employment in Community policies.
This is fully in line with the communication adopted by the Commission on this subject on  21  April.
By reiterating Parliaments support for the Luxembourg process and correctly insisting on the support which the European Social Fund must give to the European employment strategy, the report and resolution have given timely messages.

Let us be clear about what we are seeking from the European Employment Pact.
As requested by the Vienna European Council such a pact should establish a dialogue involving all the actors with responsibility for designing policies which impact on economic growth and employment creation.
This dialogue should fully respect the autonomy of the various actors and take place at different levels as suggested in the draft resolution before Parliament today.
As regards macroeconomic policy, there should be an exchange of views between the relevant actors on each element in the macroeconomic policy mix, fiscal policy, wage trends and monetary policy, so that each can fully support the growth and employment process.

As the Amsterdam Treaty and its Article  127  enter into force, there should be an assessment of the impact of all relevant policies on employment.
In our recent communication on this issue, the Commission outlined how a range of policies can promote a high level of employment and how policies are increasingly being directed towards this objective.
The Communication deals, for example, with ways of encouraging and supporting investment in capital and human resources in order to strengthen the European Union economy.
It examines how structural reforms can make markets work better and thus help achieve sustainable growth and employment.
It refers to the modernisation of social protection and of taxation systems in order to improve work incentives and opportunities for entering or returning to the labour market.
We are pleased to find that all these points are referred to in the draft resolution.

Further practical steps will be needed to assess how the various Community policies can contribute more to the employment objective and, where necessary, be refocused to ensure that they do just that.
It is vital that the Employment Pact should consolidate the key role of the Luxembourg process.
What is important now is to strengthen the employment guidelines so that they deliver their full potential as a powerful instrument for labour market reform.
We have the right to expect that the national action plans presently being drafted by the Member States will be more ambitious than last year.
And as we come to evaluate the impact of the national action plans later this year, two years after Luxembourg, we will be in a better position to assess whether the strategy is working or whether more effort is required in certain areas.

You are right to stress that the European Social Fund must play a key role in support of the European employment strategy.
We understand therefore very well why the draft resolution suggests a return to the Commissions proposal for the funding of Objective  3  activities in  20002006 .
However, we cannot forget the broader budgetary context.
We are not unhappy with the way in which the European Social Fund and the employment strategy have been treated in the Berlin settlement.

Let me now turn to your discussion on the link between the employment guidelines and the broad economic policy guidelines.
In Vienna the European Council called for greater synergy between the two processes and the Commission responded to this request with its latest broad economic policy guidelines and its Article  127  communication.
However, do not forget that the Luxembourg process is still very new.
The Member States have created new working arrangements to implement their national action plans and to report on them.
We are learning together to work a process of peer pressure and open evaluation.
It should be allowed to gain momentum: a change in timetable at this early stage could be disruptive.

It is clear that our approach to employment must cover macroeconomic, as well as microeconomic, policies and must address problems which arise not just in labour markets but also in the product and capital markets.
The creation of such a comprehensive approach and a dialogue between all the actors involved is the core of the proposed employment pact.
These are issues of substance not timetabling.
We hope the pact will be a step towards a better integration of macroeconomic, employment and structural policies.

I should like to conclude with two or three remarks on points which I found particularly interesting in the course of the debate.
Several speakers  such as Mr Blokland and Mr Langen  drew attention to the ageing population problem.
Under Commissioner Flynns initiatives, the Commission has looked into the problem of the future of social security and, I am glad to say that, at the further and recent instigation of both the German presidency and the European Parliament, we will come forward very soon with a communication on pension funds, drawing the conclusions from the Green Paper exercise.

A number of speakers  including Mrs RandzioPlath, Mrs BoogerdQuaak and Mrs Van Lancker  touched upon the taxation aspects.
Let me simply say that in spite of the inevitable difficulties due to the unanimity rule, it is undeniable that now, under the strong urging of the German presidency and with the support of this Parliament, progress is being made in the implementation of the strategy against harmful tax competition and a number of objectives have been set for the Helsinki European Council.

As far as the more specific proposal, dear to many of you, about the reduced VAT rate on labourintensive services is concerned, I am glad to note that today under the German presidency the first meeting of a Council working group on this subject took place, and later this evening we shall be debating the Thyssen report on this very topic.

Lastly, Mr Blot, I do not share your fear that fiscal coordination, following monetary union, might eliminate one of the two remaining options for implementing a policy against the famous asymmetric shocks.
I think you can rest assured since the notion of fiscal harmonisation, as proposed by the Commission and unanimously adopted by the Ecofin Council and as supported, among others, by the rapporteur, Mr Fourans, is certainly not an advanced notion of harmonisation.
I would instead call on you to consider the problem in the following terms: if there were no coordination of fiscal policies, given the present level of market integration, the Member States would increasingly lose their sovereignty to anonymous markets and they would therefore have less and less opportunities to implement an effective fiscal policy.