This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by James Smith:

Mr President, like Mr Brinkhorst I am also speaking in two capacities, firstly on behalf of the committee, and secondly on behalf of the Socialist Group.
Firstly, I should like to congratulate my two companions in this long endeavour: Mr Brinkhorst and Mr Tindemanns.
We started this process on  21  November  1997 .
If I had known I was going to spend so long with them I would have checked with more care who they were going to be.
However, I could not have picked two better companions.
We spent a whole week together in North Korea and ten and a half hours in meetings with the deputy foreign minister.
This would have produced any personality clashes there might have been.

Equally, I should like to thank Sir Leon Brittan for all his efforts to try to reach an agreement between the Commission and the European Parliament.
It has been a long, hard road.
I will not go into the detail because the points have been raised by the two previous speakers.
We now have an agreement that I think Parliament can accept on the basis of the letter which has been sent today.
I am deeply disappointed that the Council of Ministers, which apparently accepted an oral question for debate on relations with the DPRK, has failed to send anybody to participate in the debate.
Perhaps they have been delayed and I should be glad to hear from you, Mr President, if that is the case.
I presume we are expected to work out the Councils view on these matters by some form of telepathy.

KEDO, as you have been told, is a project to build two light water reactors to substitute for Russian design Chernobylstyle reactors that were under construction in the DPRK and which have the ability to produce weaponsgrade plutonium.
To try and resolve that problem we have the USDPRK Framework Agreement of  1995 .
The European Union was asked to contribute to that and this is what this comes from.
The Research Committees view was one of critical support.
We have a series of concerns.
Firstly, a financial hole it still exists.
Japans contribution of US 1  billion and the Republic of Koreas  60   and the European Unions US 85 m do not make up the full cost of the project.
It is unclear how the gap is going to be bridged.

Secondly, we are concerned about how the United States is delivering the promised heavy fuel oil which is meant to act as a bridge until these two nuclear reactors come on line.
It is being fitfully delivered.
North Korea is a deeply suspicious country.
We in the European Union might understand that the checks and balances of the US constitution mean that President Clinton cannot always clearly deliver on his promises but we can hardly be surprised that the North Koreans take a different view when, in the coldest month of the year and when energy is most needed, there was a failure to deliver heavy fuel oil to the Sonbong oilfired power plant.

Thirdly, we are concerned about the fact that KEDO is a bat without a ball.
There is no money being put forward to connect the two nuclear power stations into the North Korean grid system.
This is only going to cost  100 m or  200 m, comparatively small beer compared to what is being spent on the KEDO project as a whole, but, clearly, if you do not have the bat and the ball, you cannot play the game.
Fourthly, we are concerned about the lack of clarity on the allocation of these enormously large contracts and whether European industry is going to get a fair opportunity to bid.
Despite these reservations the Research Committee voted in favour of the programme.
We believe that, overall, it serves our best interests as a Parliament and as a European Union in demonstrating our role in East Asia.

This debate is not only about Mr Tindemanns KEDO report.
It also refers to two oral questions to the Council and the Commission with respect to future relations with the DPRK.
We have been supplying humanitarian aid for some years following a series of natural disasters  flood, drought and tidal waves  that tipped what was a barely sufficient North Korea firmly into the red as far as food production was concerned.

There is severe malnutrition in North Korea.
A recent World Food Programme report indicated that  16   of children between the ages of  1  and  6  are so badly malnourished that they suffer from permanent brain damage;  45   of children are so badly nourished that they will be permanently stunted.
So,  300   000  to  400   000   06 year olds are permanently braindamaged and  1   000   000   06 year olds are permanently stunted.
Therefore, I welcome the new agreement to supply further food aid of something over ECU  30 m and to target children under  12  and lactating mothers.

I welcome the agreement by the North Koreans on monitoring.
After the events of last week it is vital for us in Parliament to be assured that the Commission is spending the money in the appropriate ways.
I welcome also the assistance on agriculture  new techniques and maybe even new crops.
I am disappointed, however, that nothing is being done in the nonnuclear energy sector.
While I was there on the delegation I visited a coalmine and a thermal power station.
Firstly, there was no power so the coalminers had to be evacuated.
No coal would therefore be produced over an eighthour shift and the power station only had three days supply.
Both were extremely primitive and I speak as someone whose family were coalminers in the United Kingdom in the  1950 s.
Compared to the cost of KEDO, onetenth of  1   of the KEDO project would boost productivity in the coalmining industry  it has been estimated  by something like  25  , and modernise elements of coalfired power production.

On the political side I welcome the result of the Councils low level political dialogue with the DPRK and support the idea of a second meeting when the time is right.
I welcome the Commissions communication on Korea calling for critical engagement.
All I ask is that we move quickly.
The situation is critical.
We should not miss an opportunity.
I know the North Koreans have asked for a liaison office to be opened in Brussels.
I hope we can agree that can happen, subject to reciprocity in Pyongyang, and that subject to the necessary agreements we can move on to more developed relations.

Finally, I welcome the paragraph in the report that asks for a delegation to come here from the DPRKs Parliament.
We will have hard and difficult negotiations with them but the dialogue has to start somewhere.