This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Claire Cameron:

Mr President, following this mornings debate, we now get on to the political input, rather than just the input from the committees.

Speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group, our priorities from the very start have been to concentrate on those issues which would bring about job creation.
We have been trying to show that we are serious about this in contrast to the words which the Council has continually poured out since Essen about jobcreating projects while never coming up with the resources to make those a reality.
Indeed, it is also in contrast to the Commission.
I do not mean this as an insult to you, Commissioner Liikanen  you and the Committee on Budgets have a very good understanding  but it is ironic when we see a PDB with cuts in expenditure and then officials from the Commission ask Parliament to reinstate those cuts.
That smacks of hypocrisy.
In the Socialist Group we have tried to be open in our approach to job creation.

We openly admit that to achieve that goal there would need to be a revision of the Financial Perspective, especially for those three areas that Parliament has seen as priorities: the Irish peace process, research and development, and transEuropean networks.
As in the past our position is to go along with the Article  203  strategy that was outlined in the Budgets Committee last week.
What we said was that if you really want to create jobs, if you really want to put money on the line for TENs, then it has to be more than paying for studies, you have to have the money there to actually create the projects and the work.
That is why we are prepared to go along with Article  203  to make sure that the money goes to TENs, goes to research and development and, at the same time, that the Irish peace process is not left out of those priorities.

Having said that, we also recognize that the Ecofin Council of  14  October in effect killed off any revision of the Financial Perspective.
Our role as a group is not to come along, make a lot of noise and then happily back down.
If we cannot get support in this House, if we cannot get  314  votes, our group has not yet made a definitive decision but I would assume that we would go along with the strategy outlined by Mr Brinkhorst at last nights Budgets Committee.
That means creating the ECU  300 m reserve, highlighting within that at least ECU  100 m for the Irish peace process, and then deciding where the rest of it would go.
One assumes it would go to research and development and TENs.
That is a position we are prepared to support.

It does not help our case when we get lobbied by all and sundry.
When we took that decision at the first reading of the budget in committee and highlighted the strategy of going for Article  203 , I made the point that the telephones of Europe would begin to ring.
And they certainly have, from Prime Ministers and Foreign Secretaries and everyone, to such an extent that we will not be taking that course of action.
I have come to the conclusion that the telephone is mightier than the sword because it seems to achieve one heck of a lot more than we do by manning the barricades!

Today I got a note from the United Kingdom Permanent Representation asking us in effect to vote against the amendment that we voted through in the Budgets Committee.
It starts off by saying:  The proposal for a special support programme for peace and reconciliation was made by the President of the European Commission, Jacques Delors, on  7  December  1994 .
Wrong.
It was not made then, it was made several months earlier by the European Parliament.
What Mr Delors did was to get the figures wrong.
He said ECU  300 m instead of ECU  200 m and we have had the problem ever since!
But the note goes on to say  and I love this bit:  Parliaments justification for the proposed reduction, (that is, the Council has not met their request to raise the ceiling on structural funds spending by ECU  100 m to replace resources from the reserve), will not be understood in the areas concerned, particularly at this sensitive time .

That is probably true, but it is also an admission by one member of the Council that what we have said all along is actually fact, that it is because the Council has not come forward with the extra ECU  100 m that we have this problem.
It does not help when we get stuff like that put around, Mr President, especially at a time of sensitive negotiations.

I would like to make a point about some of the amendments that will be put in by the Socialist Group.
In Category  2 , we will be retabling the amendments of the Committee on Regional Policy.
That will mean that we will be asking for the ECU  1 bn in payment appropriations to be reinstated within the budget.
That is quite clearly the position of our group.
We will be supporting the amendment from the Committee on Regional Policy and the Committee on Budgets in regard to reinstating the funds for RECHAR and RETEX.
By the same token, we will be supporting the Budgets Committees proposals to ensure that the ECU  100 m for the peace process is there, but not at the expense of Community initiatives that this Parliament considers a priority.

I turn then to the resolution in Mr Brinkhorsts name.
It is quite lengthy.
In paragraphs  71 ,  72  and  73  it touches on the area of comitology.
What it says there it means, and the message to the Council is quite clear.
If you do not cooperate in this area, then there may not be trouble in  1997  but there certainly will be in  1998 .