This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by James Whittacker:

Mr President, a common foreign and security policy that promotes Europes values in the world and brings peace and security to our neighbours is what Liberals and Democrats strive for.
But it is what Europes leaders are manifestly failing to provide.

Acting together, our Union could have used its leverage to promote democracy and stability.
Instead, its policies have given tacit support to tyrannies like Tunisia, Egypt and Syria.
We never demanded that diplomacy depend on releasing democrats like Egypts Ayman Nour; or, in Asia, on the right to a free return to his country for opposition leader Sam Rainsy, now in exile while we fund the dictatorship of Hun Sen.

Mrs FerreroWaldner, Mr Solana, why are you surprised at the Palestinian poll?
The European Union has peddled promises of democracy, peace and human rights in Palestine while our development aid has fed AlFatah, whose members now burn images of one of our prime ministers and peace negotiations have got nowhere.
Far from being a key player, Mr Solana, the consequences of Europes failure are plain for all to see.

Israel, undeterred, builds a wall around East Jerusalem in violation of its roadmap obligations and international law.
The Palestinians, tired of slow progress and shameful social services, turn to Hamas at the ballot box.
And now the prognosis is worse than ever.
After demanding democracy, some EU leaders talk of shunning one of the only democratically elected governments in the Arab world!
Of course, Hamas must renounce violence and commit to a twostate solution.
But so must Israel.
As Leila Shahid, the General Delegate for the Palestinian Authority said today: It takes two to tango.

The Commissioner has spoken of policies based on human rights, the rule of law and democratic principles, but where is the emphasis on those fine things when pragmatism devoid of principles is so often the order of the day?

A global drive for peaceful conflict resolution would be a major counterweight to the heavyhanded US approach; it would assure Europes security, prosperity and global repute; and it would also give us far greater leverage over microstates like the Maldives or the Seychelles, whose governments abuse human rights despite being almost totally dependent on our aid and trade.
That is why Liberals and Democrats believe that the time has come for an accountable, properly funded and valuesdriven European foreign policy.
According to Eurobarometer, it is a desire shared by  70  of our citizens.

Mr Solana, Liberals and Democrats object to Parliaments views being ignored or disregarded on matters of global importance.
We want to see less of you on television and more of you here in this Chamber.
And we are tired of Council secrecy and its disregard for Parliaments right to prior consultation on policy priorities.
Those rights are enshrined in Article 21  of the Treaty and in the  1999  Interinstitutional Agreement.

We are facing many grave challenges: to democratise our Near Neighbourhood, especially former Soviet republics currently at the mercy of Russias energy politics; to ensure that the elections in Belarus are free and fair; and to ensure that the referendums in Kosovo and Montenegro do not end in violence.

The role of foreign policy must not end there.
I understand that selling arms to China is back on the Councils agenda, yet China has still not recanted the Tiananmen Square killings, nor released, after  16 years, all those jailed.
So we demand an assurance from you, Mr Winkler, that the Austrian Presidency will not lift the Unions arms embargo.

Most pressing is the question of Iran.
The IAEA board of governors meets tomorrow to decide whether to report Iran to the Security Council.
Stopping Iran building nuclear weapons must be our aim.
That is why Europe must commit to respect the IAEAs findings due in March.
But making progress towards the disarmament of the current nuclear powers, in line with the commitments we have made, is the strongest and most convincing message we could possibly send.
A Europe which learns to use its muscle as a force for good is truly a force to be reckoned with.