This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Marc Corless:

Mr President, this has been a week without precedent with the resignation en masse of the European Commission.
That resignation follows the damning report by the Committee of Independent Experts of the Commission as an administration that in too many instances was out of control and a system where too few people were prepared to accept personal accountability and responsibility for their conduct of public affairs.

I believe that Mr Jacques Santer is a decent man.
His Commission included a number of positive and strategic achievements.
The launch of the Euro, the conclusion of the Amsterdam Treaty, the preparation of Agenda  2000 , the opening up of enlargement negotiations.
In part, the Santer Commission, ironically, has become a victim of its own willingness to examine fraud and corruption within the Commission.
In part, it has been a victim of the chaotic, undermanaged and sometimes unmanaged growth of responsibilities during the Delors years.

Ultimately, however, this Commission was the author of its own demise.
Over the past twelve months, in relation to the conduct of affairs with this House, Jacques Santer, unerringly if unwittingly, led his Commission to last weeks crisisinthemaking.

At every critical point during that period, he has caused the Commission to offer to this House solutions that, had they been offered at the outset of each stage, might have worked.
In the end, and always at that stage, they proved too little and too late.
For his own political misjudgements, Jacques Santer has paid the ultimate political price and with him his colleagues have resigned.

If this has been a difficult week for the European Commission, it has been a good week for European democracy.
For the Parliament, this entire debate has represented a coming of age, a new maturity in understanding our democratic rights and our capacity and our duty to act in the public interest when we assert them.
The system of governance in the European Union needs to be subject to more democratic control and public accountability.
We believe we have crossed a new and irreversible threshold in that process.
I might add that threshold is one we would never have crossed if we had followed the soft advice of a false sense of confidence commended by some to this House last December.

For its part, the European Parliament will no longer be prepared to be presumed to be the junior partner in European decisionmaking.
It is not that the Parliament should be first among equals, but from now on it must be an equal among equals.

We find ourselves now in the process of creating a new, minimum and acceptable European norm for the management of public affairs and Community institutions which does not permit cultural exceptionalism.
Hiring ones dentist to do work of dubious, if any, European value is not acceptable.

Now, Mr President, I hope you will allow an Englishspeaker to talk to you in French to suggest that the language of Molire might be enriched by a new and typically European concept, that of berthelisme , which means having a fictitious job paid for out of European taxpayers money.
The members of the Acadmie franaise could immortalise this word by putting it in the dictionary.
Purists could never accuse it of being franglais, not that I would ever dare to offer such an insult to the members of the Acadmie .

Last week saw the downfall of a Commission in which some members had already made a start along the road to berthelisation , and in future we will always be ready to condemn any Commission that again succumbs to the Berthelot syndrome.

Berthelisme , of course, Mr President, is not confined to the corridors of power of the European Commission.
The European Parliament must profit from this occasion to clean up its own act.

We are vulnerable on the matter of top staff appointments.
We remain vulnerable on the question of Members travel allowances until the system is radically overhauled.
We are not yet as transparent as we could be or ought to be on our individual group and collective expenditures financed by public purse.
We cannot demand in this institution, of other institutions, what we would not demand of ourselves.

The creation of new European norms of behaviour in office must apply with no less force and conviction to the European Parliament than they will to any future European Commission.
The ELDR Group notes the implicit criticism of the Council in its role as one of the two arms of the budgetary authority for failing to give due and proper consideration to critical reports prepared by the European Court of Auditors on tourism policy on the MED and the ECHO Programmes.
This failure by the Council to assume political responsibility should caution a certain modesty among those in some of our capital cities who seem prone to see the failings revealed in recent days as almost uniquely the creation of the European Commission.
In this regard, we note with concern the relative ease with which the Council granted discharge for  1996 ; and we note with profound regret that on the very day of the publication of the expert committee report, the Council granted discharge, prematurely in our view, for  1997 .
It is not an inspiring example of responsibility in action.

Where should we go to from here, is now the essential question.
The ELDR believes that the Santerled caretaker Commission has lost its political and moral authority to act and so it must go immediately and be replaced by an interim Commission for the balance of its unexpired term.
The appointment of the new millennium Commission, due to take place in January next, we believe, properly is a matter for the new Parliament with a new mandate, with new political balances and with new powers under Amsterdam.
The current treaties already provide a way; and if the Council wishes to add to that the spirit of Amsterdam, then we can proceed to an interim Commission appointment through that means.

But let me make it clear that the renomination of Mr Jacques Santer or Madame Edith Cresson or some others to the interim Commission would not be acceptable to the ELDR Group in the light of recent events.
Such nominations would risk provoking even deeper crises.

For our part, the Liberal group has consistently argued the merits of individual accountability within collegiality.
To this end, we do not tar all the outgoing Commission with the same brush.
We are prepared to judge each on his or her individual merit in the belief that not all were personally responsible for the ineptitude or incompetence of some.

Let me say to the PresidentinOffice that I would like to take this opportunity on behalf of my Group to wish the Berlin Council well, and to say that we hope you will achieve the objectives of Agenda  2000  which are now more essential than ever.
But let me also say in concluding that when we come to appoint an interim and future European Commission, my Group, which has been to the forefront in criticising the current Commission, wishes to make it abundantly clear, that our wish is for a strong, independent political Commission; and any attempt to weaken this in the future is one that we would resist in Parliamentary terms.
The Commission needs reform and Union needs a strong, independent, politically reformed Commission.