This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Helen Cameron:

Mr President, this for me is a very historic day because  21  years ago to the day I was the only MP still here who spoke on the first ever UK Presidency  the last UK Labour presidency.

I notice from the Minutes that Mr Tomlinson spoke in the next debate and he is still here, but he was speaking as PresidentinOffice of the Council, not as a Member.
So it is historic and I would like to start on a pleasant note by throwing a few bouquets at the PresidentinOffice, which might surprise him.

The first bouquet I am throwing is because of the introduction of PR for euro elections  a long awaited improvement in our lot.
The opting into the social policy shunned by the previous government, the promise today of opening Council deliberations, something I spoke about  21  years ago, suggesting as I do now, that EP committee chairmen be invited to Council deliberations on relevant matters: I wait to see if that will be followed  21  years later.
It is not a case of rock and roll so much as of a slow foxtrot.

I would like to praise also the enormous courage of Mr Cooks counterpart in government, Mo Mowlam, for her very brave actions with regard to Northern Ireland.

I would like to praise the European noises that are coming from the front bench.
But I start now with a criticism about EMU.

It is an irony surely that in the moment when the decision is to be made as to who is to be in the first tranche, the UK has opted out, although it qualifies, and is not going to be in the first tranche.
That to me is a lost opportunity.
I would say to the PresidentinOffice that the train will start, it will travel well, and will it not be harder to clamber on the train once it is well in motion?

The Trade Union Congress, the CBI, the exporters of whom Scotland has very many, are all in favour of EMU.
So I think that this is a great shame and I wonder if even yet it is not possible for the UK Government to change its mind?

Here is what President Crosland said  21  years ago today:  There was always in the context of EMU, a widespread hope that financial policymaking would pass from Member States to the Community and that the Community would transform from a customs union into a fully integrated economic union complete with its Central Bank, a single fixed exchange and a growing harmonization of taxes.
It is a bit of a slow foxtrot, is it not?

While the UK has dithered, bereft of vision, the clock has ticked on and I think the failure of the UK to join EMU is a present tragedy.

On the social policy side I have another criticism.
Is there much point in getting the advantages of the social policy, which we have always supported in the party I represent here, if Old Labours stance of defending the disadvantaged is to be abandoned?
Disabled, single mothers, students  there is a Eurospeak that people criticize but there is also a New Labourspeak which I criticize.
Meanstesting is now affluencetesting .
Longtermism is meant to excuse the savage cuts of today.

I would like to turn to some practical questions on the priorities.
We all have our favourite environmental issues, but I would urge that we enforce the code of conduct passed by this Parliament for substandard tankers which threaten all our coasts and have, in fact, caused enormous damage to many of our Member States.
On unemployment, the EMAC committee on which I served has put forward that there should be a compulsory rule about late payment.
That really would help to solve the problems of small businesses and we should look to the very small businesses where real jobs can be created in great numbers.

The PresidentinOffice did not mention fishing today.
We have had a debacle of decades with the last governments sellout to Spain on fishing.
But recently we had another one by this New Labour, with the sellout on the Fraga report.
So, I ask the PresidentinOffice if he is still committed to the principle of relative stability?
This is the fundamental question.
And are flagships to be allowed to continue making a nonsense of the whole of the CFP as it was originally developed?
Has he read the Duke of Edinburghs criticism this week of the onesided nature of fishing agreements between the EU and poor developing countries?

Members on all sides of this House and from all countries welcome the referendum, which must be another bouquet I throw at this government that the PresidentinOffice represents.
But there is keen sadness about the broken promises: the direct relationship offered to the new Scottish Parliament with Europe has been watered down, the status of the Lnder has been watered down, the right to attend meetings if the Scottish interest was dominant has been watered down.
On enlargement, can we solve it without an enhancement of the funding?
I have an interest here as an Objective  1  area.
Objective  1  is just beginning to work to redress hundreds of years of neglect of my area.

Lastly, my  23  years here have seen the reconciliation of the old rivalries of Europe which caused war, horror and devastation and by decades of patient dialogue we have created the habit of cooperation.
That is a habit we must never take for granted.

(Applause )