This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Roger Smith:

I should like to congratulate the Committee on Culture, and in particular its rapporteur, Mr Hoppenstedt, for this comprehensive report on Expo  2000  Hannover.
In the year  2000 , Expo  2000  Hannover will be a major communication event on a world scale.
The theme for the exhibition is mankind, nature and technology.
The organisers, under the leadership of the Expo Commissioner General, are committed to presenting current and future options on how to achieve a balanced and harmonious coexistence of the themes three elements.

It is the Commissions intention to ensure the participation of the European Union and its institutions at this important event.
This was also outlined in our communication of  18  March.
We are pleased to see that all EU Member States will participate in this event.
The vast majority will have their pavilions located on the socalled European boulevard.
The EU pavilion would be at the heart of this, just opposite the host countrys pavilion.

The aim of Union participation at Expo  2000  is to present the crucial role the European Union is playing, through its institutions, as a forwardlooking, dynamic actor on the world stage at the dawn of the  21 st century.

The Commission is pleased to note that Mr Hoppenstedts report gives positive backing to the Commissions intention to organise Union participation at Expo  2000 .
The report specifically underlines the importance of a coherent and balanced presentation within the Union pavilion.

The Commission agrees with Mr Hoppenstedt that the Union pavilion must present the best possible image of the European Union in the  21 st century: a European Union which is democratic, transparent, lawabiding, socially just, tolerant and culturally diverse.
What we strive for is to make its citizens aware of the reality of European integration and of the Unions role in international relations.

It is our aim that such a presentation will be based on the use of the latest interactive multimedia and electronic technology available.
This will ensure that visitors, and in particular the younger generation, will have an eyecatching and thoughtprovoking experience.

I am pleased to inform you that an architects competition for the design of the Unions pavilion has now been judged.
Its results are due to be announced formally in the EC Official Journal.
The companies involved in the competition have also been informed directly.
The Commission is responsible for the official coordination of all EU institutions to ensure they participate in a coherent manner in Expo.

I can report to you that such coordination has already begun.
The Commissions interservice task force, and an interinstitutional working party have been created.
The detailed programme of activities and communication strategies is being developed within these two bodies along the lines of the Commissions communication and the Culture Committees report.
Regular reports on the progress of this work will be made to the Culture Committee.

With regard to the budget, an estimated amount of EUR  14  m is proposed for the year  19992000  on budget line B 3309 , Special Annual Events.
This budget, which will cover the needs of all EU institutions, is deemed the minimum necessary to finance the proper participation of the Union at the Expo.
It will be recalled that a total of EUR  10  m was earmarked on budget line B 330999  in order to finance two activities: Expo  2000  and a European campaign to combat violence against women.
In addition to this it is strongly recommended that a further EUR  6 . 5  m is voted for in the budget for the next year, the year  2000 , to complete the Expo  2000  action.

The Commission is confident that the interinstitutional cooperation already set in place will produce the necessary positive results to allow the budgetary authority to determine favourably the budget for  2000 .
The Commission also welcomes the proposal to second Parliament staff to work at Expo  2000 .
This will be in addition to the Commission staff that will be devoted to this action.
The estimated administrative expenditure for this participation is EUR  1 . 44  m on part (A) of the budget.

The Commission looks forward to continuing cooperation with the European Parliament and its services to ensure that the Unions participation at Expo  2000  will be an important event in bringing the European Union and its institutions closer to its citizens.