This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Helen Finlayson:

.
Mr President, I speak on behalf of my colleague, MrMichel, who is unable to be here this morning.
I wish to begin by expressing my thanks to the rapporteur, MrHutchinson, and the Committee on Development for a constructive report on aid effectiveness, a topic of key importance for the EU development policy.

Improving both the quantity and the quality of our aid is certainly one of the core commitments set out in the European Consensus for Development, the latter having been endorsed by all Member States, the Commission and Parliament in  2005 .
The Consensus is a crucial document for all of us.
First, it opens a new dimension for joint work between the  25  Member States and the Commission.
Secondly, it highlights, for the first time in EU history, our collective European vision, principles and objectives that govern our development policy.
Thirdly, it sets out the comparative advantage of the Commission and the objective of redeploying Member States activities in order to achieve better and highly necessary synergy.

As demonstrated during all the debates on the European Consensus, the Commission should promote the impact of Europe in development and push the European aid effectiveness agenda.
The European Union must be a leading force in international fora dealing with aid effectiveness, in particular in the OECDDAC, where the Commission enjoys full statutory membership.
A strong EU makes for a strong DAC.

It is with this in mind that Commissioner Michel has proposed a package of concrete deliverables on aid effectiveness, which were endorsed by the Council in spring  2006 .
The Commissions approach to aid effectiveness is based on lessons learnt from the field, good practices and expectations from the partner countries.
It is rooted in the principles of harmonisation, ownership, alignment and management by results, as in the Paris Declaration.

Parliament has made it clear in previous resolutions and again in this report that it supports the Commission in its efforts to strengthen the coordination and coherence of both Commission and EU actions in the development field.
The report highlights three important areas in which progress needs to be achieved in  2007  and I would like to comment on them briefly.

First, strengthening complementarity and the division of labour: these issues are crucial for the Commission.
The EU Donor Atlas has indeed underlined the gaps and duplications in donor activities which hamper the impact of aid.
In order to address these weaknesses, the Commission launched a process with Member States aimed at adopting operational principles for a better division of labour between EU donors.
Discussions are currently ongoing and this initiative should be rendered operational with Council conclusions in  2007 .

Second, the joint programming of aid: the EU now has at its disposal a joint framework adopted last spring.
This framework foresees the drawingup of common diagnostics and analysis in partner countries, in close partnership with Member States involved, to establish common operational solutions.
Partner countries and civil society play a major and active role in this process.
Far from being excluded from these discussions, civil society is strongly involved in the country diagnostic set up in order to ensure its full ownership.
This approach is fully in line with the approach used in EC programming.

Thirdly, a few words on an essential tool for improving the division of labour and coordination, that is, cofinancing.
In  2007 , the Commission will bring forward specific proposals on how to strengthen the use of cofinancing as a tool to support the division of labour amongst donors, as well as to assist those Member States building their development capacities.
Parliament has been persistent in its wellfounded requests to the Commission to ensure coordination among Member States in order to strengthen the effectiveness of financing for development.
As you can see, the Commission has clearly adopted a proactive attitude and will, in close collaboration with Member States, use all tools at its disposal to make greater aid effectiveness a reality.
I can only advocate that the European Parliament uses the joint meeting on development with the national parliaments next October as an opportunity to expand support for these initiatives.

Indeed, it is important for the EU to ensure that its political ambitions match its financial status as the largest global donor.
In this respect, Parliament has a crucial role to play in helping Member States to accelerate their reforms and make the necessary cultural changes implied by this new joint working dimension.
Success on this front is of major importance for reaching our development goals, as well as taking the lead on the global development agenda.

Let us recall that the ultimate objective is to succeed in the fight against poverty.
It is only by acting together and by making the best possible use of all the means at our disposal that success can be guaranteed.
Thanks to the European Consensus, we now have all the necessary tools to achieve this goal.
We must make sure that these commitments remain high on our political agenda and that we do not miss this real opportunity to turn our ambitious political commitments into reality.
It goes beyond politics; it is a matter of collective credibility.