This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Jennifer Green:

Member of the Commission.
Mr President, honourable Members, over  40  years ago in van Gend amp Loos, the Court gave EU market players and citizens the rights they need to play a central role in our European project.
The legal environment in which the victims of antitrust infringements currently find themselves is not acceptable.
I got the message that everybody agrees on that.
I would like to thank you for the stimulating debate here this evening on how we might gradually improve this legal environment, and I look forward to Parliaments vote on the report.
So far, so good.

I would now like to respond to a few issues raised in our debate this evening.
Mr Doorn raised the question of legal base.
That is important and quite clear.
At the stage of a Green Paper, and in the absence of any Commission proposal, it is rather premature, if you will allow me to say so, to discuss the question of legal base at this stage.
The Treaty offers appropriate, specific and general legal bases for measures in this area and I imagine that we could agree upon that.
However, a pertinent base, and hence the applicable procedure, can only be identified in line with the nature, objectives and scope of any individual measure possibly envisaged after the White Paper.
I will, however, consider the extent to which it may be appropriate to say something about legal bases in the forthcoming White Paper.
So, there is still something to look at there.

I am aware of the need to be sensitive as regards national procedural rules.
There is no doubt about that.
That is quite a clear warning.
On substance, we already have one uniform European competition law, and by their very nature, breaches of the antitrust rules have a crossborder impact because they affect our internal market, and that is what we are protecting.
It makes sense to me that the right to compensation should also be equally enforceable throughout our internal market.

It is only to the extent that the procedural rules of the Member States do not guarantee effectively the substantive rights conferred by the Treaty that the Commission may seek some approximation of these rules.
Any measures proposed would have to meet the strict tests of subsidiarity, proportionality and necessity.
The White Paper will be accompanied by an impact assessment, as I have already said.

Mr Evans mentioned the need to avoid encouraging a litigation culture and the risk of unmerited claims being brought.
The Commission is encouraging a competition culture compatible with our existing European legal cultures.
We will pursue a measured and balanced approach, because like you, we are determined to avoid opening the door to the excesses which some other jurisdictions have experienced.
But fear is a very bad adviser.
None of the key characteristics of US antitrust litigation is suggested as an option in the Green Paper.

Many of those of support facilitating damage actions, like Mrs Bowles, stressed the need to avoid tilting the scales too much in favour of claimants.
However, these same commentators also recognised that the scales are currently tipped against the victims of antitrust damages, and hence that something should be done.
The Commission is striving for a proportionate and measured approach developed in consultation with stakeholders.

Mrs Wallis mentioned collective actions for damages claims.
Given the costs of litigation, it is unlikely that individual consumers will bring smallvalue damages claims against the perpetrators of competition law infringements.
So it is worth looking at options for collective redress, as she rightly mentioned.
The Green Paper looks at representative actions brought by consumer organisations.
So let us be clear  and I repeat  USstyle optout class actions are not on the agenda and will not be on my agenda.

In optout class actions, lawyers act on behalf of an unidentified class of persons and mainly pursue their own interests.
In representative actions, the latter have no separate interest different from that of the injured parties they represent.
The Commission thus believes that the interests of consumers are better served by a representative action than by an optout class action, and I hope this will also reassure Mrs Bers.

Your involvement signals the importance of the debate launched by the Green Paper, and is a reason for hope, as we are all aware that there is something to be done.
There is no doubt about it: the devil is in the detail.

I should like to leave you with two key messages.
First, I hope that this House will send out a strong signal that the current situation is not acceptable and that is what I have got from you.
This is all about rights, and this House has been a consistent supporter of rights across all policies and all areas of European cooperation.
We have to give European citizens and European businesses the ability to exercise their rights under European competition laws.
This is an area in which the Community can show its relevance to the daily life of citizens and to business.

Second, it is by working together in dialogue, through ideas and constructive criticism, that we will be able to make improvements, at the same time avoiding the known pitfalls.
I look forward to taking this process forward with the White Paper at the turn of the year.

Thank you for the interesting debate and thank you especially, rapporteur, for your hard work on this important file.