This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Marc Bauer:

Madam President, if Mrs Dhrkop Dhrkop can wax lyrical at this late hour I am sure you will allow me a little bit of levity if I say first of all that Commissioner Liikanen has virtually stolen my speech.
He said the things that I was going to say and when he began by saying that this is a budget which is surrounded by serenity, following Barbara Dhrkops analogy with playing a piano.
I am reminded of Eric Morecambe, the great comedian from the UK who is now dead.

There was a sketch where Eric Morecambe is playing and is making a real honkytonk noise.
It sounds absolutely awful and Andr Previn says,  you are playing all the wrong notes,  and Eric says,  I am playing the right notes, but not necessarily in the right order.
That has always seemed to be the way we have done the budget in the past, and Barbaras analogy with playing a piano is not too far out, because this year is different.

I said it when Helen Liddell first came to the Budgets meeting.
We do not deal with the Commission like this  we even had a Scots interpreter in the English language booth doing it with a Scots accent for Helen Liddell.
It seems that everything is going so well and that is good.
I think it shows the partnership that is being developed and a maturity towards the budget from the three institutions involved.

On Mr Violas report, I think we have to say that the fact that it is unamended and went through Committee unamended shows the consensus from all the groups as far as these guidelines are concerned  what we expect from the budgets of the other institutions.
We congratulate Mr Viola on the work he has done and we hope that consistency will continue as we go through the year.

On the Dhrkop report on the adjustment of the financial perspective, the trialogue which occurred earlier this week, as Commissioner Liikanen said, has been extremely fruitful, carried out in an atmosphere of cooperation where the three institutions want to get a settlement.
It is not an adversarial situation where we are trying to score points off one another; instead we are actually trying to get a budget which we can all agree to and this adjustment of the financial perspective.
One hopes that when Mrs Liddell goes to the Council she can come back and report to Parliament that the additional resources that have been provisionally agreed can be agreed in total.
It would be a major achievement if we could see that.

On the main report, the political group which I represent as coordinator supports it throughout  to such an extent that we wanted it to be kept, like Mrs Dhrkops, as short as possible.
As to the amendments which have been proposed, we agreed last week not to support any amendments, and I say this mainly for colleagues like Mr Brinkhorst.
We see nothing wrong with his Amendment No  1 , but we actually think it is better placed within the first reading.
On this occasion we would not be inclined to support it.
Having said that, several of my colleagues see no reason why we should not support it, and I remain to be persuaded that we should support it between now and voting time tomorrow; so do not give up hope yet, Mr Brinkhorst.
If we do vote against, let me make it clear that it will not be because we disagree with the content of that report, but because we took a stand to keep this report as short as possible.
We can apply that to many other amendments, but please try to understand that it is not for dogmatic reasons, it really is a matter of simplicity.

It is a budget, as Commissioner Liikanen said, of prudence: we use the terms a citizens budget and a taxpayers budget in the same sentence and I think that is what we are trying to achieve with these guidelines.
When we look at the priorities, as far as our group is concerned the main priority is about job creation, about creation of employment; no matter how we do it, whether it be through infrastructure, whether it be through research and development, whether it be through support for small and medium enterprises.
That is the thrust of our approach to this budget.

We also support the phrase Europe of knowledge which Mrs Dhrkop has introduced  one would expect her to give priority to education and training, having known her for many years; and we would want to see European funds spent in the area of education and training and research and development.
The thrust of the report you can find in paragraph  8 , and I think we can give our full support to what it says there.
At the end of the day it is about getting that agreement, about making sure that the three institutions are working together.
And who knows, at this rate we may end up with one reading of the budget.
Oh that it were so!