This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Christoph Bauer:

Mr President, I have never been a unilateral disarmer at any stage in my political career, in any context.
I have always been a multilateralist, whether it be in respect of disarmament or the putting in place of international rules to create institutions of global governance or in the design of processes to create agreements or to solve disputes in the world.
I bring those principles and that approach to this subject as I have done to others throughout my political career.

We have heard a call this evening for moral leadership.
The morality that I bring to this subject of trade is my belief in free trade.
I say it is moral because I believe that free trade is the best way to drive economic growth, to lever up living standards, to create opportunities for people and to attack poverty in our world.
That is what I call moral.

However, one of the ways in which we morally pursue free trade is by standing up for fair trade.
When I look around me and see the public disquiet, uncertainty and unhappiness about what is going on in the global economy and the sense that people feel increasingly insecure and threatened by the dramatic changes that are taking place in the architecture and landscape of the global economy, I see people beginning to question whether free trade is a good idea.
I see them beginning to wonder whether sheltering from the global economy would be better; whether erecting barriers between us and our trading partners might not be a better way of securing our jobs and our livelihoods.

I make a very strong argument against that reaction and instinct, but I will never help that argument against protectionism if I am seen to be or thought to be weak when it comes to standing up for the upholding and implementation of internationally agreed trade rules which stand out against anticompetitive behaviour, state interventions or trade distortions, which are designed to give one trading partner an unfair, unreasonable and unacceptable advantage in trade against another.
That is why it is appropriate and proper to operate trade defence instruments within the rules created by our multilateral institutions.

However, I would never want to see those rules used as a weapon against others lowcost competition or against others legitimate use of their comparative advantage.
That is not right and it is not acceptable, but nor, if I may say to Mr Kamall, was that the case either in respect of textiles or shoes.
Shoes, yes, was an antidumping measure, arrived at after considerable investigation, analysis, recommendation, discussion, debate and finally decision amongst our Member States, as it properly should be.
I would stand by the objectivity and the transparency with which that decision was arrived at, and it certainly was not adopted for protectionist purposes.

However, in the case of textiles, I never said it was unfair trading.
I never said that the fierce competition that we were facing in the case of textiles was as a result of price or market distortions by the Chinese.
I merely pointed to the fact that with the final lifting of quotas we in Europe were suddenly and unexpectedly faced with what amounted to an avalanche which, if it had not been resisted, would have had the likely effect of burying our market and severely distorting what people produce, how people sell, their profits, their livelihoods and, therefore, their jobs in such a sudden way that I believed it was appropriate  and, in the end, our Chinese trading partners also agreed that it was right and appropriate  to take voluntary cooperative measures to slow down the rapid increase in Chinese textile exports.

You are right that at all times, on all occasions and in all cases we should operate impartiality, transparency and truthfulness in the analysis we put forward, the conclusions we reach and how we seek to justify the measures we are advocating.

It is true, as Mrs Handzlik said, that any intervention of any sort in the market  legitimate, antidumping or other uses of trade defence instruments  is bound to create some uncertainty and weaken the ability of businesses to plan ahead.
Mr Kamall made a similar point.
I take this very seriously indeed, because I do not want my actions, as agreed by the Member States, to have the effect of making a bad situation worse by further disrupting or undermining the ability of companies to plan ahead and to organise their production, which, of course, is hampered if supply and production chains are undermined or disrupted by interventions such as these.
Therefore we must minimise the disruption.
One of the things I want to take very seriously in the context of our Green Paper and our examination of this matter, is how we can minimise disruption and offer the greatest possible predictability to companies that might be affected.

I just want to make this last point: Mr Caspary said  if I may elaborate on and embroider his words slightly  that we should keep to the rules and at all times seek to strengthen and improve them.
I agree with that.
That is precisely what we are doing in the DDA and why we have a multilateral system and process governing these rules and an institution that enables us to negotiate precisely the strengthening and the improvement that you advocate.
That is why the WTO system is so important.

I would just like to say in conclusion that, whatever disruptions, interventions, distractions or diversions we have in a trade agenda which is very wide and very complex, I will always keep my eyes very carefully focused on the DDA, the importance 100 on equal remuneration for men and women workers for work of equal value, and Convention No 111 on discrimination in the workplace. In the multilateral context, a reference to core labour standards was included in the declaration of the first World Trade Organization Ministerial Conference in Singapore in 1996 . Regrettably, WTO members did not agree to include this issue as part of the Doha Development Agenda. Nevertheless, the Commission is committed to addressing trade and social development, core labour standards and commitment to meaningful dialogue between the WTO and the International Labour Organization, both in the EUs own trade policy review and the trade policy reviews of other countries. As part of this process, the International Convention of Free Trade Unions reports on core labour standards are prepared ahead of each trade policy review. The Commission is also strongly in favour of observer status for the ILO in the WTO. The European Commission has also pursued social development objectives in regional, biregional and bilateral arrangements. All its most recent agreements recognise and promote social rights as part of the universal objective of decent work for all. The Commission has, for example, entered into dialogue and cooperation with countries such as Chile, South Africa and biregionally with the ACP countries, the Gulf Cooperation Council, Mercosur and other regions. The European Commission remains of the view that the discussion and pursuit of social issues should not be used for protectionist purposes and it rejects any unilateral sanctionsbased approach. The objective is to further social progress with a view to promoting benefits for all. Since 1998 the EC has also been granting trade preferences under the Generalised System of Preferences, special incentive arrangements to those developing countries that assure the respect of the core labour rights as defined by the ILO and comply with international recognised standards on sustainable forest management. Currently, some 180 developing countries and dependent territories are granted GSP. In the framework of the new GSP scheme, adopted on 27 June 2005 by the Council, a GSPplus initiative for sustainable development provides additional tariff preferences for countries that have signed and effectively implemented UN and ILO conventions on human rights and labour rights, including those on gender equality. A total of 15 of the agenda we are pursuing in the DDA and the vital importance of bringing those negotiations to a successful completion.
I want to do that in respect not only of market access but also of trade rules and their strengthening, and that is what the Commission remains dedicated to achieving.