This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Philip McNabb:

Mr President, I wish to thank the rapporteur for his detailed explanation of the situation which faces us at the second reading, which I do not intend to duplicate tonight.

Instead, with respect to the few diligent souls still left in the Public Gallery at this hour, I would like to illustrate in a way that is particularly relevant to Members why we need to make some real progress both tonight and in the coming weeks to create a meaningful European network for surveillance and control of communicable diseases.

There is something that most Members do more often than most of our fellow citizens: we fly in aeroplanes.
Put any two Members together and very soon they will start discussing departure lounges and airline schedules.
We do not just fly around Europe, we often move through most of the corners of the globe.
Throughout that globe there are some very risky places, and some of the risk for the unwary or the unprotected is caused by disease.
The disease could be carried in the air, in liquids, bodies, articles or by insects.
Yet in some of the European Union Member States, there are health rules at points of access, in others the rules are very different, despite frequent crossborder transits.
On some airlines measures are taken to protect passengers  for example by spraying cabins  on others they are not.
Information is made available in some states, sometimes accurately and accessibly and in a range of different languages based on a wide range of data.
In such circumstances a close degree of cooperation and coordination makes common sense, not just for travellers and parliamentarians but for all our citizens who need protection in many more ways than the very simple small example I have just set out.

However, the common position returned to this Parliament offers a number of low common denominators.
While agreeing the surveillance network means obligations on Member States, the Council has agreed unanimously only a more general flexible framework for information exchange and coordination of efforts.
Even allowing for Treaty limitations, there are severe concerns that this will be completely insufficient.
After all, the poor status quo brought about these proposals after initial reports showed the weaknesses.
Five years later we still need progress.
Hence the strength of the near unanimous votes in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection for the recommendations of the rapporteur.

Mr Cabrol has pursued his extra proposals with his usual vigour and diligence.
It will be of great interest to see whether, assuming Parliament as a whole adopts the recommendation, as I hope it will, in the subsequent conciliation negotiations the minimal stance of the Council and the more progressive and realistic approach of the Commission  which I know places considerable importance on these proposals to the extent of unusually reserving its position  can be reconciled with the more forwardthinking proposals from this Parliament.

It may be that some are too far ahead of their time, and specific European structures may have to await the lessons of the future reports which we will now receive at even more regular intervals than we suggested at first reading.

I am pleased that at least some of our suggestions have already been incorporated.
However, my group will be supporting the argument for a more clearly defined role for the European Union, which goes beyond a couple of officials keeping an eye on development of diseases within our boundaries, or simple supplementation of wider WHO or state networks which may or not be effectively implemented.

The Commission wants the power to be proactive, to study and act upon significant outbreaks wherever they occur and, given the draft Treaty commitments on coherent public health policies across Europe, to take proper coherent action where and when it is needed.
It needs to be sure of accurate, fast, comparable data and that there are no weak links in the chain.

Finally, I hope the whole House will thank Mr Cabrol for pursuing his case.
I now look forward to both the Council and the Commission negotiating seriously and urgently on all the amendments we support to help a meaningful, practical and effective network to be put in place, not to expand bureaucracy but to help tackle some of the worst diseases in the world.