This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Sebastian Bush:

Mr President, I warmly welcome the British Prime Minister to the European Parliament.
I wish to thank him and his colleagues for a very effective and efficient EU presidency.
I would like to place on record that at all times this Parliament and its Members were extended every courtesy and assistance at political and official level.
I want to say how thankful the Members are for this.
I wish to thank the Prime Minister for his contribution here this morning.
I also wish to thank the President of the Commission for his contribution and to say that my group will strongly support the main thrust of what the Commission President said here today.

The Cardiff Summit has been more a stocktaking exercise than one in which major decisions have been made.
Nevertheless, an ambitious timetable has been set for reaching major agreements on the reform of the common agricultural policy, the regional and social funds and the budget.
They represent policy areas that are at the very heart of the European Union.
The decisions will have a direct and immediate effect on the citizens of the Union, whether our farming and fishing communities, those in industry  large and small, rural and urban communities and those who live in the lessdeveloped regions and islands.
These decisions must not become parttime hostages in the heat of election campaigns.

The Europe which we are building must favour an inclusive and caring society in which the interests of all must be respected.
However, with  18  million people in the Union affected by unemployment including the young and the longterm unemployed, this objective is not being met.
Tackling unemployment through a broad range of measures must remain our top social priority.
Failure to do so will result in the retention of a twotier society of those who are included and those who are excluded.
I regret that there has been no consideration of establishing a new programme to combat social exclusion and actions on behalf of the elderly.
I appeal to the PresidentinOffice and to the incoming PresidentinOffice to reassure the House that whatever new initiatives are necessary will be undertaken.

The conclusions on unemployment which are outlined in part  3  of the presidencys document are more an overview of what is being done at present than a new set of initiatives.
Only time will tell if they will be successful.
If we are to go along with the presidencys conclusions then the fifteen employment action plans submitted by the Member States represent a real effort to enhance the employability of young people, the longterm unemployed and women.
It means that demands that we have been making for the development of skills, lifelong learning, improving conditions for SMEs and the selfemployed are being put into effect.
This is very much indeed to be welcomed.
What we now need to see is the practical and rapid implementation of these action plans.
A series of orientations for future work and employment are set out in the conclusions.
Regrettably the detail is vague, for example with regard to childcare schemes.

We attach considerable importance to the successful introduction of the euro.
It is essential that the remaining legislative and practical steps be completed rapidly.
The negotiations which have begun on Agenda  2000  are among the most important ever to be undertaken by the Union.
Choices will have to be made about key policies which will have major longterm consequences for each of our countries.
Agenda  2000  is indeed of fundamental importance for the future development of the Union.
It not only has consequences for present Member States but also for the whole process of enlargement.
Under no circumstances can the cohesion process for existing lessdeveloped regions be jeopardized, nor should there be any link between EMU participation and eligibility under the Cohesion Fund.
The whole question of transition arrangements is of the greatest importance.
They must, for example, in the case of my country, be adequate in terms of the level and duration of funding in order to address our continuing significant development needs.

The reform of the common agricultural policy is very controversial.
Agriculture is one of our greatest assets.
Agenda  2000  must strengthen and not destroy the common agricultural policy.
It is crucial to the preservation of our family farms and rural life.
I do not believe that the present proposals constitute a reasonable basis for negotiation.

Mr President, I would like to personally congratulate you on your own efforts and those of my Prime Minister Bertie Ahern with regard to the Northern Ireland peace agreement of  10  April.
I also wish to acknowledge and sincerely thank Members of this House for their support for the peace process.
My group warmly appreciates the further endorsement by the European Council of this historic agreement and its renewed commitment that the Union should continue to play an active part in promoting lasting peace and prosperity in Northern Ireland.
We particularly welcome the Councils invitation to the Commission to make proposals as to how new and creative ways can be found to support the fresh opportunities which the peace agreement will bring.

Finally, it is my view that it is regrettable that the European Commission has again come under attack in the context of the European Summit.
The Commission has always undertaken the duties and responsibilities it has been given in an evenhanded and fair manner.
The Commission has consistently discharged its functions as guarantor of the European Treaties in an exemplary fashion.
President Santer and his team of Commissioners have consistently reported on their activities to this Parliament and have not in my view exceeded the powers which have been given to them by the Council and I hope that the Commission will not be made a scapegoat in national election campaigns in our Member States.