This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Lynne LaCourt:

Mr President, in Mr Christodoulous report  in the explanatory statement  there is a wonderful line that says this provides a longterm solution, since it has not been unilaterally denounced by any of the three institutions concerned  yet.
Yet is my word, because Parliament has not yet voted on this report.

I am going to speak with two tongues in this debate: one  as an individual who has been involved in the debate in the negotiations, and then, as it is my responsibility to speak, in my role as coordinator for the Socialist Group.

On a personal level I welcome the report.
I think it is the best that we could achieve, and a culmination of many years of work and attempts by Parliament to get this problem resolved.
So, knowing what we have gone through in the past, I am extremely pleased with what we have got for the future.

I also have to say that when we were coming to this conclusion on  17  July, there was cooperation between ourselves, the Commission and, dare I say, the majority of the Council.
The previous presidency had given its commitment to resolving the matter.

As the British Prime Minister said from where the PresidentinOffice now sits, the Austrian Presidency has been committed to it, but I have to say that the length of time taken, which the chairman, Mr Samland, referred to, was because of indecision by at least one Nordic Member State.
Quite frankly, it was a pathetic performance on that trialogue to get a conclusion to this decision, which really involved a small amount of money.
I hope I never have to go through that again because it was a waste of time if nothing else.
That is my personal view.

When we were coming to these conclusions, all three institutions were of a mind that the deal on the legal basis would be fine for the future, but we still have the problem of this year  1998 .
That is why I advised caution at the beginning of my remarks.
I, and Mr Samland, Mr Colom i Naval, Mrs Dhrkop Dhrkop and Mr Tomlinson  those who were involved in the negotiations  have to convince our group tonight, when we discuss the issue, that this report is worthy of a yes vote.

We need some clarification, certainly from the Commission, on those lines which were considered to be problematic.
There were four areas.
Last night I received a document chart showing the lines where the problems were, and hopefully the Commission has come forward with solutions.

This will be taken to our group tonight and we will do our best to convince.
But I seek the help of the Commission now to clarify those areas of doubt which will arise when Members see this, especially over lines B 5321   action for the economic and social areas like cooperative mutuals, etc,  where a large proportion of the money has not yet been utilised and there does not seem to be a way of utilising it.

On lines B 7611 ,  851  and  852 , where sums in the region of ECU  11 . 5  million remain unused, what will happen to those amounts of money?

In the areas which we did have problems with such as sport and minority languages, the bulk of the money has been used.
There will be small amounts left and it is fair to say that even without the problems we have had we could still have had those small amounts of money left.
I am therefore quite prepared to argue the case for them.
But there are those few lines which still give us concern, and I would seek help from the Commission to give us an assurance that those areas will not be left untouched  that the money will be utilised.
With that information I hope we can go forward to our group tonight and then vote positively.

One final point  we went to a lot of trouble to get this report put together and there was consensus on its content.
There are some amendments put forward  three or four by the Greens  which, while nice, are not necessary.
My recommendation to our group would be that we do not support the amendments but we stick by the report unamended.
I do not want anyone to assume that we do not sympathise with the contents of those amendments by the Greens, but we really want the report to be concise rather than elaborate.