This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Sarah Green:

Mr President, the Socialist Group warmly welcomes the report from Mr Gasliba.
It is an extremely timely and very important report.
At the moment we talk largely about monetary union.
This report allows us to urge the Commission and the Council to turn this into a truly economic and monetary union.
Of course we need strengthened economic coordination within the European Union as we enter these final thirteen months of the approach to EMU.

I want to address a number of points in Mr Gaslibas excellent report.
The first is the issue of the Euro Council.
I would like to make it very clear that the Socialist Group supports, and has always supported, the idea of a strengthened Euro Council to help bring about greater economic coordination within the European Union.
But I have to say that many of us are dismayed at the moment at the way in which a number of countries now believe that the Euro Council should in fact merely be an informal intergovernmental Council, not only excluding certain Member States of the European Union, but excluding the Commission and also excluding the supervisory role of the European Parliament.

This Parliament has never supported nor will ever support, an arrangement  whether you call it a Council for stability or whatever  which stands outside the Treaties of the European Union.
We want to see a Euro Council that is going to strengthen the economic coordination of the European Union but, for heavens sake, we ask the Council to make sure this is an Euro Council for the long term in Europe, that is going to help to give some economic governance to Europe.
It must be transparent, accountable to this Parliament and involve the Commission.
Anything else will be judged with great scepticism by the people of the European Union.

I would like to address the issue of the broad economic guidelines and address my remarks in particular to the Commissioner and the representatives from the Commission.
The broad economic guidelines are the mechanism by which we can guarantee much greater economic coordination.
The European Parliament really wants to work with the Commission over the next couple of months to redesign the broad economic guidelines, to redesign the annual economic report of the European Union so that it means something to our people.
It must be written in a way that people understand and is relevant to the real economy.
That means it must look at issues like employment.
We want synchronization between the broad economic guidelines and the employment guidelines that will now form an important part of our strategy within the European Union.
I would ask Commissioner WulfMathies for a guarantee that over the next few weeks we can work together to reshape the way in which these reports are prepared so that they are relevant to the future.

I should also like to raise the matter of the participation of national parliaments in this process.
It would be churlish of the European Parliament to believe that we are the fount of all knowledge and democratic accountability in this process.
National parliaments will set their national budgets and we must make sure that we have a process of collaboration between the European Parliament and national parliaments as we move towards greater economic coordination.
It is a challenge to this House to work out a system of cooperation between national parliaments and the European Parliament so that all democratic institutions participate in guaranteeing that economic and monetary union is a success.
National parliaments will play an important role.
I hope we can come forward with ideas next year on how our relationship with national parliaments can be strengthened.
Mr Gasliba mentioned the issue of asymetric shock.
We have largely ignored this question.
The Commission has ignored it and so has the Council.
We have to face up to and be prepared for the fact that at some point we run the risk of some sort of asymetric shock occurring within the European economy.
What will the mechanisms be for dealing with this potential problem in the future?
Mr Gaslibas report asks the Commission to come forward urgently now with a report addressing how we start to deal with this potential problem that might occur at some undetermined time in the future.

My last point concerns how this Parliament deals with its technical advice.
In the United States the US Congress has an organization called the Congressional Budgets Office.
It is a quasiindependent office that can look at the models proposed by the administration for budgeting, economic policy and can advise the Congress on what steps it should take or what advice the Congress should give to the administration.
It is time in the European Parliament for us to have our own parliamentary budgets office that can look at the macroeconomic policies that are pursued in the European Union and give proper weighty advice to the Commission to ensure that our opinions are properly taken on board by the Commission and the Council.