This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Sebastian Whittacker:

.
Mr President, when I was made first vicechairman of the Petitions Committee, colleagues said to me that it would be rather like being the gatekeeper of a cemetery: I would see a lot going in, but not much coming out.

I am pleased to report, especially during last years activities, that we have seen a lot going in and a great deal more coming out.
A cemetery it certainly is not; it is alive and kicking and due to get livelier.
It is probably one of the most important committees in the House.
Some would say that, as first vicechairman, I say that; but I honestly believe it to be true.
It is the direct interface between the institution and the citizens  citizens often seeking redress for problems that arise at Member State level.
I am also pleased to say that we work in close conjunction with the Commission.
We are a solutionbased committee.
People bring us problems and we try to work quickly and effectively.

At Member State level, the importance of the committee representing Parliament is not always recognised.
One of my recommendations would certainly be for greater attendance by Member State representatives when we are dealing with issues that are germane to them.

The report is a lengthy one and that is primarily due to the fact that we have enlargement; there has been greater engagement with this committee.
The petitions process and the work of the committee have played an influential role in bringing pressure to bear on Member States to ensure that EU laws are satisfactorily transposed and implemented.
Importantly, it also highlights the plight of EU citizens whose rights are diminished.
The introduction of the epetitions system has proved a useful tool for Members, assistants and group staff and allows us all to keep an eye on developments on ongoing petitions.

I mention some key points in my report.
Without going into too much detail I should like to highlight just two areas where the committee has managed to be influential, although not totally so.
The cases in point are the socalled Valencian Land Grab Law (LRAU), MsFourtous report, which we adopted in December  2005 ; and one of my reports on the confiscation of cars by the Greek authorities, which we adopted earlier this year.
Those examples are good illustrations to show the best and the worst of the system.
Yes, we have brought about resolution in some of the cases with the Greek confiscation of the cars, but I have to say that, sadly, the situation in Valencia is still grave, and requires further monitoring.

I make several recommendations in my report, including increasing the membership of the committee to approximately the same membership as other committees; and speeding up our processes in the way in which we work with the Commission to ensure close cooperation and effective working methods.

I want to pay particular tribute to the Commission staff, who often come to the committee, wait for a long time and then sincerely and effectively deal with the issues before them.
We cannot thank them enough.
The work of the Commission staff is not always fully recognised.

I feel it is important that we have clear rules, however, on the admissibility of petitions, especially for the future, in order to ensure that all citizens can have recourse to the petitions process but that the system is not abused.
I have tabled only one plenary amendment to the report, on behalf of the Socialist Group, which underlines that in principle the petitions process is aimed at European citizens and reinforces the view that in principle the petitions process should be a service that is targeted at EU citizens who do not have other means of recourse to action by the European Parliament.
MEPs, as citizens, can avail themselves of that right, but nonetheless they have other parliamentary processes at their disposal.
I hope that other groups can support the aim of this amendment.

I should also like to pay tribute to the Petitions Committee secretariat and their tireless support for the Members work and our work.
As with other committee secretariats which I have worked with, the Petitions Committee secretariat provides highquality assistance to us all.
To put it simply, we would not be able to do the work without them.
So I should like to finish by once again paying tribute to all members of the secretariat.
I look forward to hearing the comments of the House.
I should also like to thank the chairman of my committee, Mr Libicki, for all his work and the support that he gives me and others.