This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Amy Smith:

Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, eight discharge reports have been presented, not quite in the order indicated on the agenda, but we appreciate the reasons for that.
It is impossible to speak on them all in four minutes.
I wish to look at only a few key points, but I should like to extend my sincere thanks to all the rapporteurs.

I shall begin with a word about the authority to grant discharge itself, and about our Committee on Budgetary Control.
For  20  years now, we have had the authority to grant discharge, and we have constantly been developing it.
We rely mainly on the annual report and the special reports of the Court of Auditors, for which we are grateful to the Court, but also on the position of the Council when it is available in time  as it was in this case.
However, despite our repeated requests, clarification of the position was presented to the Committee on Budgetary Control not by a member of the Council, but by a senior official, though I imply no criticism of him.
He performed his task well in so far as he could.
Now you, Mr PresidentinOffice, have addressed the House, and I think you have also listened carefully to what has been said here.
Our comments have been directed mainly at the Member States, but it is not the Member States to whom we must grant discharge.

I should like to turn now to the issues involved.
This time, the discharge of the Commission involves two instruments which have been used for the first time  instruments, as I said, directed specifically at the Member States.
The first innovation is our vote on the clearance of accounts for the EAGGF, submitted by the Commission for  1991 .
Clearance of accounts was previously classed as a technical procedure for which the Commission was responsible.
Parliament had little to do with it.
It is thanks to Mr Cornelissen, as rapporteur on the  1992  discharge, that the problems from previous years have been raised.
A particular problem which has been brought out into the open is the loss to the Community of some ECU  1 . 6  billion on milk quotas in three Member States.

Detailed discussions between the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Commission have produced reform as regards the clearance of accounts decision, which now completes the discharge already granted for the year in question.
This procedure is being applied for the first time for the year  1991 , with the very good report by Mrs Kjer Hansen.
The rapporteur deserves our thanks for highlighting the difference between the technical and political aspects.
The necessary financial corrections applied by the Commission to the Member States are absolutely nonnegotiable where losses to EU funds are involved.
If this is not the case, then the discharge for the clearance of accounts will have to be suspended until the monies are recovered.
An initial tangible result of Parliaments insistence on protecting taxpayers money is that the first tranche of the unpaid milk quotas has been received.

The second innovation, the Statement of Assurance, or DAS, by the Court of Auditors, has farreaching implications as regards discharge.
Although there is no legal requirement on Parliament, and although an improvement in staffing levels would enable the sampling method initially developed by the Court to be further refined for specific Member States and sectors, we must take pains to include the certificate in our decision.
The rapporteur, Mr Wynn, has done this in the motion for a resolution from the Committee on Budgetary Control, and his readable explanatory statement provides us all with an invaluable aid to understanding this complex issue.
I would like to thank him particularly for that.

I am very concerned at the figure of  4  , arrived at by the Court, for errors concerning payments, but in the light of the measures initiated by the Commission with the SEM  2000  programme  and thank you, Mr Liikanen and Mrs Gradin  and particularly on condition that the Commission recovers the outstanding sums and identifies the accounts to which they relate, and that we check them, I am prepared, with these considerations and conditions, to support the constructive approach proposed by the rapporteur in the first year of trying out the DAS procedure.
My group therefore backs the recommendation to grant discharge to the Commission in respect of the general budget for  1994 , in spite of the shortcomings that have been identified, and subject to the appropriate conditions.