This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Lynne Green:

Mr President, I should first like to thank the PresidentinOffice of the Ecofin Council for his report to us today.
I cannot let this moment pass without expressing my personal pleasure at welcoming to this plenary a British Labour Chancellor of the Exchequer...

...and to ask him to take back to the Labour Government the congratulations of the Socialist Group for the first momentous year of Labour in government.

(Mixed reactions) As this Parliament takes its part today in seeing in the euro to  11  Member States of the Union, may I also welcome the positive and sensible approach taken by Gordon Brown with regard to the introduction of the euro in Britain.
The careful preparations being made mean that those of us who support British membership  of whom I am one  will be able to conduct a campaign for a Yes vote with some confidence that there is a better balance to the advantages and disadvantages than was even thinkable under the last government.

Despite the fact that Britain is not to be in the first wave of entrants to the single currency, it fell to the British presidency to see the euro to its final stage.
For those who doubted whether a country outside the currency should or could conduct this with integrity, rigour or, indeed, vigour, I hope they have heard yours and Prime Minister Blairs unequivocal statements, many times repeated, that the euro when launched must be a success, not just for those Member States in it  important as that is  but for all those who are not in it as well.
The economies of the  15  are so closely and inextricably linked that any problems of the euro are not the problems of the  11  alone, but also those of Britain, Sweden, Denmark and Greece.
Therefore, the euro must be successful and the British presidency committed itself to do all in its power to make it so.

At this point my group pays tribute to the work of the Commission in bringing this to fruition but also to the inspirational work of former Commission President Jacques Delors who has made such a remarkable contribution to Europe and the euro.

(Applause) The Socialist Group welcomes the fact that today  11  countries will be given the goahead to move forward to EMU.
My group has always argued that we want as many Member States as possible to form part of Economic and Monetary Union from the outset.
We do not agree that a euro of the  11  equals a weak euro.
Just look seriously at the phenomenal convergence which has taken place in all  15  Member States, even those who are not joining now.
Never before have so many countries striven of their own free will to reach the same targets at the same time and with such success.
The scale of the project is unprecedented and shows what the European Union is capable of when the political will is there and when we decide to work together.

The EMU project has been immensely successful to date.
It is right to acknowledge that and to pay tribute to the courage of those government leaders who have carried it through.
We must, however, make clear today why it is more than ever necessary to secure a single currency.
Some of our citizens fear the coming of the euro and its economic consequences.
Many believe that the economic stringency of recent years and the consequent rise in unemployment are only as a result of the drive for the euro.
We should accept that, to some extent, we have not given a clear picture of the global context in which the single currency becomes not just a tool for European integration but far more.
As we have seen the global market expanding in the last  8  years, it has become clear that if we want to create a future for our young people for tomorrow, we must develop new, innovative strategies which will combat the negative consequences of the global market and the information society whilst harnessing the positive consequences.
The single currency, with its potential for stability, greater certainty for investors, the savings inherent in transaction costs, price transparency and so on is one very important and innovative European opportunity.
Perhaps we do not often enough say that single currency or no, the economy of the world is changing dramatically and working life as we know it is already different and will be even more so in five or ten years time.

So, today we begin a new phase.
Yes, it is a challenging one.
Yes, it is one with some dangers.
But at least we have the courage and vision to imagine, plan, organize and create a new currency for Europe, a new chance for Europe.
We all know that if the euro is to succeed in dealing with unemployment and falling living standards, it must be accompanied by policies for growth, job creation and investment.
My group has argued and will continue to argue for greater cooperation and coordination of Member States economic and employment policies.

Finally, I want to make two points that are important to my group.
Firstly, this Parliament has been deadly serious about our role in the introduction of the euro.
No one can accuse us of causing harm to the concept or damaging any aspect of the process.
Why?
Because the money in our citizens pockets is much too serious to play games with.
So, we now expect the Council to be just as serious in the next  24  hours in carrying out its side of the bargain and carrying out its obligation under the Treaty.
We expect the Council to nominate the governor and the board of the Central Bank tomorrow in line with the Treaty  one governor for eight years.
That is the first test of the euro and the Council must not fail it!

(Applause) Secondly, the damaging press speculation of the last few weeks about the governor and the political wrangling which is going on has demonstrated the sort of political pressure to which the Central Bank will be subjected.
We all now know very clearly the sort of phone calls the governor will get in the middle of the night and we know where they will come from.
It is even more important, therefore, that the lines of accountability are drawn very clearly from the Central Bank to this European Parliament.
We here endorse the independence of the Central Bank as laid down in the Treaty.

But independence is not compromised by accountability.
The concepts are quite distinct.
The euro must operate for the good of all the Member States within the euro area and all the people therein.
The only body with that panEuropean dynamic to hold the bank accountable is this European Parliament.
Any governor worth his or her salt will understand that this Parliament offers a political counterweight to national political pressure and will seek to cultivate a good working relationship with this House as a matter of urgency.
My group will clearly have an eye to this during our public hearings for the governor and the board in the coming weeks.

Today is a day for celebration.
The arrival of the euro marks an important step forward for the Union.
It does not mean our work is over but it certainly means that an enormous task has been successfully completed.

(Applause)