This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Amy Finlayson:

Mr President, I would like to thank both the President of the European Council and the PresidentinOffice for their reports here this morning.
I would like to congratulate Mr Klima.
He brought a refreshingly realistic assessment to this Parliament, recognising both the successes of the Austrian presidency but also, where there are disagreements within the Union and where I am sure he has experienced the frustrations which we in this Parliament feel as a result of those disagreements.
We do not often hear that sort of honest assessment given in this House and I hope it is a sign of things to come.

So I want to thank both Mr Klima and Mr Schssel very much for that and also for the efficiency, the diligence and hard work of the Austrian Government during their first presidency.
Mr President, in your speech to the European Council on Friday, and again this morning, you expressed your thanks on behalf of Parliament for the way in which the presidency has cooperated with Parliament.
On behalf of my group, I should like to add my thanks to the many ministers who have attended here and helped and supported the work of this Parliament.
Particular thanks are due to Mrs FerreroWaldner who has been our regular partner here for the past six months.
We offer our thanks.

The Austrian presidency came at a particularly awkward time, sandwiched as it was between the British and the German presidencies.
In the former presidency negotiations were started to enlarge the Union  a momentous event  together with a decision on which countries should join the euro, the establishment of a central bank, arguably an even more momentous event.
The forthcoming presidency is destined to conclude the Agenda  2000  package which is of immense significance for existing Member States of the Union and for enlargement.

So the presidency had to steer a path between one set of mighty events and another without having any of that timetable fall into its own lap.
The Austrian Government is to be congratulated for making sure that the way ahead is clearly timetabled to Cologne and to Helsinki, that the decisions needed are identified and that the broad outlines of many initiatives are set.
It was never the intention that major decisions which have absorbed the European press in recent days would be concluded at Vienna.
In particular, it was never the intention that decisions would be made on future financing of the Union.
Let us be frank and clear about that.

But it has been possible to continue the debate on some of the key issues facing the Union: the next stage in our employment strategy and a European employment pact.
My group very much hopes that the initiative which the Council outlined in Vienna will allow us to establish a counterweight to the growth and stability pact which will secure future monetary security in the euro zone.
Whilst the single currency will have a great impact on the lives of our citizens, employment is even more immediately crucial for every family in the European Union.
In this respect, my group particularly welcomes the express invitation of the Council to allow those Member States who so desire to initiate reduced VAT rates on labourintensive services which are not exposed to crossborder competition.

This was a proposal which was put to the Luxembourg special summit in a report from this Parliament by my colleague Wim van Velzen and which the Council at that stage felt needed more analysis and assessment.
Your agreement that such an idea could be an important employment generator gives us great satisfaction and we will certainly do what we can to facilitate progress on that in this House.

Chancellor, I note that in the conclusions the Council pays special attention to the fact that this moment coincides with the  50 th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Indeed, Mr Schssel mentioned it himself just now.
The Council is asking the Commission to draw up proposals to counter racism in the applicant countries and invites the Member States to consider similar measures inside the Union.
I want to commend the Council for calling for action in this very sensitive and important area.
Perhaps we could ask you to take back to the Council an appeal from us, that it should issue a firm declaration that it will ensure that the European elections will be fought throughout the European Union free of manifestos or platforms which promulgate racist or xenophobic hatred or fear.
Such a declaration coming from the special summit in March on the eve of the European election campaign would be an important signal of the Councils serious intent to fight the politics of hate wherever they are to be found in Europe of the next millennium.

An issue of particular significance already mentioned in this House and one which has absorbed an inordinate amount of our time is the question of the Members Statute.
I want to thank Mr Klima in particular for his willingness to receive the draft statute so carefully developed by our colleague Mr Rothley.
I recognise, as we all do, that the statute contains elements which will require detailed negotiation but I cannot stress how important it is that rapid progress is made if we are to have it in place for the June elections.
We welcome the fact that the Council considers the draft an appropriate one on which to begin discussion.

We have our negotiating team ready.
Could we ask you to press the secretariat of the Council to get on with it?
It is political will that matters.
Please urge your successors to get on with it.
There are some in this House and many outside who have always argued the cynical case, that we would never get the agreement of the Council to put the need for a statute in the Treaty.
Amsterdam did that.
Then they argued that we would never find agreement amongst ourselves on a draft statute.
Mr Rothley did that.
They argued that the Council would never deal with it in Vienna.
And you did that.
Now they argue that we are deluding ourselves if we think we can reach a final result by the time of the European elections.
Together we can do that.
I urge the Council to help us demonstrate that we can now conclude this issue fast and fairly.

I would like to mention just a few issues concerning third countries.
The agreement with Switzerland is a particular success.
It is especially noteworthy that it should have been the Austrian presidency which resolved this problem and demonstrated the value of using the expertise and shared experiences of particular Member States with third countries.
However, my group is increasingly irritated and disturbed by the length of time it is taking to find a solution to the negotiations with South Africa on the trade and cooperation agreement.
I know you agree with me but we note that the Council expects that this will come to a conclusion in the next six months.
Frankly, we must succeed.

On the day on which the European Parliament awards the Sakharov prize for freedom of thought to Ibrahim Rugova who struggled so valiantly for peace in Kosovo, it would be wrong not to pay tribute to the work of the European Union in working for political dialogue, peaceful solutions and humanitarian support in that troubled part of our continent during the last six months.
This debate should not just be about the Vienna Council.
We all know that not every Council can provide dramatic, earthshattering changes.
We here are always too ready to demand such results, in my view rather naively.
So I want to pay tribute to the ongoing work of the Council in which the Austrian presidency can take particular pride.

I have already mentioned the much delayed agreement with Switzerland.
Another very big success was the fifth action programme on research.
For a year this has lain unresolved on the table: a programme which contains the fourth largest spending area in the Community budget.
It is to the credit of your ministers that agreement was finally reached on this programme as well as many others in the past six months  a six months in which Austria can take pride.