This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Roger Reid:

Mr President, I too welcome what my colleagues have been able to do in the committee and I salute the real heroes of this report  Mr Medina, Mr Bge and Mrs RothBehrendt  for the major work they have done, and also those in the Commission who have interacted with us in an extremely positive way over the past six months.

BSE and CJD have been a nightmare for Europe for some years.
Many have lost their livelihoods and some have lost their lives.
The Medina report and its followup have shown that the European Parliament can take an appropriate initiative by itself in this matter.
It is another form of codecision, except that here we were not responding to proposals that came to us from the Commission or the Council but taking a view because of the absence of such proposals at an earlier stage.
The criticisms of the Commission during the debate on the Medina report were made in that spirit.

We should acknowledge quite properly that the Commission has made considerable advances, in particular through DG XIV, in the last six months.
Because of that, by far the majority view in my group and in others as well, is that a vote of censure would be inappropriate.
There are many things which still trouble us.
One is the somewhat dilatory attitude to disciplinary procedures within the Commission itself but that is no ground for a vote of censure.
We said at the outset that while we were concerned with issues of public health and safety, we are not a committee of public safety in the French revolutionary sense, calling for heads, calling for show trials.
We simply want to make certain that the lessons with regard to internal discipline are learned as effectively as some others.

We also feel that the Council was lethargic early on in its response to the Commissions very necessary proposals for health and safety and the treatment of risk materials throughout the Community.
The whole of our committee, in particular on its visit to the United Kingdom, was moved by the plight of the CJD victims and their families which was eloquently expressed to us by Mr and Mrs Churchill.
The whole committee wanted to express solidarity with the victims of this terrible disease and their families.
We know that this must be material sympathy and support, as well as mere moral support.
It must involve the Member States as well as the Commission, and we look forward to initiatives on both sides in that regard.

Speaking for myself, an inquiry into the origins of CJD in the UK is long overdue and I shall do all I can to try to bring it about.
The argument in principle is settled and there should now be no unnecessary delay over the details.
The UK Government welcomes this report.
This time there is none of the spiteful criticism that was directed at Mr Medinas earlier report.
When he came before the committee the minister, Dr Cunningham, made it perfectly clear that the committee would be right to call him and that he would always attend.
It is better to lay some stress on the positive aspects of that, rather than go into the legal quibbles of what is or is not requested or permitted or demanded under the Interinstitutional Agreement.

The United Kingdom has been at the centre of the BSE epidemic from the beginning but, with the precautionary measures which have now been put into effect, it is entitled to be seen as setting an example in health and safety standards, including the safe storage of rendered carcases.
A number of people have referred to this.
I would simply point out that whilst everything has been done to meet the conditions of the Florence agreement, it is absolutely the essence of health and safety that rendered carcases  in the form of meat and bonemeal in which they are stored  should be kept in conditions of absolute security and safety until they can be safely incinerated.
We should not be demanding that the whole stockpile be put up the chimney at once.

We believe that all Member States should now be prepared to join in precisely the same preventive measures which have already been implemented in the United Kingdom.
Recent events in Belgium have shown that BSE can occur in states which felt they were free of it and that mistakes can be made in analysis and in the final destiny of the carcasses concerned.
I do not say that in any spirit other than one of sympathy and  to use the word that the President himself used today  solidarity with any country anywhere which finds itself affected by BSE in the way that we in the United Kingdom have been.

The answer is not to clamour for BSEfree regions or zones but to recognize that throughout the European Union we are a single zone which needs total security, safety, traceability and vigilance as the soundest basis for consumer confidence and for beef to be traded once again throughout the Community on its merits and in a market where that confidence has been restored.

My final point is just to say that in the future this process of scrutiny must continue and I look forward to the information campaign on food safety which DG XXIV is planning for  1998 .
I hope that campaign will be launched during the British Presidency with full backing from Member States and consumer groups.
From all of this, after so much distress, much good can come for both consumers and producers in the Community.
Mutual trust between them and a proper regime of health and safety has to be the outcome of the BSE crisis.