This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Marc Finlayson:

author.
 Mr President, with your permission, I would propose that we delay a moment or two because this is an oral question to the Commission and we were hoping that Mr McCreevy would be here, but I see that Mr Samecki is going to speak.
I have not met Mr Samecki before, so I am interested that he is here to provide an answer to an issue that Mr McCreevy and his team have been working on.
Thank you very much.

I was going to have welcomed Mr McCreevy here and thanked him for his work previously, so perhaps you will pass on our good wishes for what might have been his final appearance here.
Nevertheless, I am particularly pleased that Mr Barnier has joined us as a very active member of my committee to hear this, because this is a dossier which will be very much in his intray, assuming of course that the Parliament approves his nomination and the Commission moves forward.
It is nevertheless very good that he is here.

The free movement of professionals and the Directive on the mutual recognition of professional qualifications are among the flagship issues that my committee is most concerned about in the whole construction of the single market.
It is very appropriate that we are discussing this question to the Commission this morning, which is essentially to ask for an update on the progress in transposing the revised directive that my committee worked on back in  20042005 , and on how that is actually being implemented by the Member States.
It is also very timely because Professor Monti came to our committee on Monday to talk about his mission for the President of the Commission on the future direction of the internal market.
He made a very strong point that part of the problem with the internal market is actually not the lack of legislation, but the consistent enforcement and effectiveness of the existing instruments that we have in place to create the internal market.

In the case of the mutual recognition of professional qualifications, as the text of our question quite clearly sets out, we already know that a significant number of problems in relation to recognition of professional qualifications are encountered by citizens across the European Union.
It has one of the highest levels of complaints in the Solvit mechanism that we very much support at member government level.
Many people feel frustrated by the absence of clear decisions and also by the lack of contact between authorisation bodies in different Member States.
One of the things that our own research has done, and this committee commissioned research on this topic, is to demonstrate the fact that there is nothing like enough coordinated activity on helping people to recognise their rights under mutual recognition.
The other aspect is that it is also clear from the work we and others have done that not enough professions are actually thinking in terms of moving into a European qualifications framework.
There are serious questions that we need to ask about the mechanism, about how simple it is to access and about how effective it is in practical terms.
We know from the statistics and the information  and I am sure we will hear from the Commission shortly  that transposition of this instrument has been delayed in just about every Member State.
It has taken much longer than people expected to bring this into operation, and that of itself raises concerns about the complexity of the instrument itself.

Just to pull all these things together in the context of the work of the Internal Market Committee over the next five years, I am delighted that, I think, all the coordinators of the committee are here today and I want to thank them for the work they have done, together with myself, on shaping the forward agenda for this committee.
This question of mutual recognition of professional qualifications is not just a oneoff.
It is part of our feeling that the role of our committee is to continue to investigate, to promote and to make recommendations about the future evolution of the key legislations, the key building blocks of the single market.

We know that the Commission is due to review the mutual recognition directive in  2011 .
We plan to have a meeting of national parliaments and national parliamentarians to discuss this proposal.
We have already had a hearing on this and we have our research report.
These are the instruments that my committee can use and, if the coordinators agree, I am sure that we will be doing an owninitiative report sometime in  2010  to feed into this discussion that the Commission will have.

That is the context of the question.
We look forward to hearing the Commissions reply to set the framework for that, but this is just the beginning of the process and I am sure that the new Commissioner will be able to take that forward and work with us to really develop this crucial piece of legislation and make the single market work better.