This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Sebastian Bauer:

Mr President, I would like to thank all those who took part in this debate, which I found worthwhile both from a political and a cultural point of view.
I would like to assure the participants in the debate that the Commission, and myself personally, attach a lot of importance, as you do, to culture and books, and we recognise the cultural importance of books and are ready to take into account these specific features.
Mr Karas mentioned that I have already stated that I wish competition policy to be an element of the social market economy: I confirm this and ask you all not to consider competition as an abstract concept and the citizens enemy.

Competition is the main ally of individual citizens.
Competition s main aim is to safeguard consumer interests from the point of view both of prices and quality, as well as to safeguard small and mediumsized businesses against the excesses of large businesses, in many cases.
For this reason, just as I am prepared to give full recognition to the importance of culture, I am asking you not to become intellectual victims of an approach whereby competition is not a major ally of citizens.
The task of competition is to combat cartels, the abuse of dominant positions and mergers, and to create more possibilities for economic freedom, and we know that economic freedom is often accompanied by civil freedom too, as shown by the past experience of countries which did not have economic freedom.
I therefore believe that there is room for a harmonious interaction between cultural policy and competition policy, without creating futile and forced counterstances.

The evidence provided by Lord Inglewood, which can be found in other countries as well, shows that the abolition of a fixed price system does not necessarily bring about disruptive consequences in terms of prices and quality of books.
Yet I want it to be very clear that the Commission is not working for the abolition of fixed price systems for books as such.
Frankly, Mrs Juncker, I wonder whether you and I were in the same room when I spoke because I am very surprised that you say that the Commission wants to eliminate the price maintenance system.
May I repeat literally what I said in Italian:

The Commission believes that national systems of fixed book prices, based on agreements between companies, are compatible with Community competition rules if they do not significantly affect trade between Member States.
I also said: As for systems based on regulations  that is, the other possibility, not agreements but regulations  each Member State is free to adopt regulations as long as they are compatible with the principle, sanctioned by the Treaty, of the free movement of goods .
Therefore, please, let us not depict the Commission as an institution which sets out to do things that in reality it has no intention of doing.
I have repeatedly said that we will not oppose, nor can we oppose, fixed book price systems at national level.
We must only prevent telling distortions arising from the fact that this is a crossborder issue.

I have already said, as regards the specific GermanAustrian case, where proceedings are ongoing, that unfortunately I cannot discuss it in detail here.
I can, however, assure you that I made an enormous effort, in my first three months in office, to meet the parties concerned and pinpoint prospects for a positive outcome.
In this respect, I found Mr Langen s intervention constructive, as he seems to recognise that such a prospect exists.

(EN) Finally, Mrs Echerer reminded us all in this room that we have different backgrounds.
She is right.
Unfortunately, my background is not that of an actor.
I would not dare to define myself as a man of culture, far from it, but I spent my life until five years ago as a university professor and my life has been spent between books as an instrument for work and they are something I deeply respect and love.
I believe I am as sensitive as anybody here to the importance of books, of culture.
It is simply my job to try to preserve all the positive values that are embedded in them, avoiding at the same time some excesses that may be to the detriment of the reader.

Thank you very much for your attention.