This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Jennifer Green:

Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have a comprehensive package of discharge decisions before us, allowing us an overview of the most serious problems that we have to contend with in the proper implementation of the budget.
The citizens of the EU are entitled to require that every last ECU should be managed in a transparent, effective and economical way, and today, like last year, we must once again conclude, on the basis of the Court of Auditors analyses, that there are major flaws in the system.
However, the very fact of discussing these deficiencies openly and frankly can go some way towards generating confidence.
Nothing should be swept under the carpet.
In this respect, all the reports paint a very clear picture and have the support of my group.

As I see it, there are two main areas of difficulty.
We must cut the ground from under the opportunists.
What do I meant by that?
If Member States find a way to make some money on the side from milk quotas, and if their little scheme receives the retrospective blessing of the Commission, in the sense that there is no insistence on the repayment of ECU  2  billion, this encourages the hope that putting your hand in the Unions till will ultimately pay off.
My colleague Mr Samland, and of course the Council, will have more to say on this point.

If the rules on the administration of the Structural Funds are not observed, and if this does not incur, for example, the suspension of further payments, then such an approach is actually being encouraged.
It is a fact that  80   of the EU budget is spent by the Member States, and it is precisely there that significant deficiencies are emerging.
However, we shall get nowhere simply by issuing appeals.
As long as the EU budget functions with the present high level of subsidies from the Agricultural and Structural Funds, there must be a range of sanctions mechanisms to prevent irregularities going unpunished.
The Commission should therefore take very seriously all the proposals made by the Committee on Budgetary Control for securing and recovering sums wrongly disbursed.

As regards external policy, the important thing is to overcome difficulties in the treaties, in order to achieve a more transparent spending policy and genuine cooperation between the two arms of the budgetary authority.
That applies equally to the European Development Fund and to the common foreign and security policy.

Parliament has repeatedly called for the EDF to be integrated into the budget.
The reasons for taking such a step are obvious, and led the Court of Auditors to comment that it was hard to draw any comparison between what was intended and what was implemented.
I would therefore say to all those who argue that a refusal to grant discharge would be an insult to development policy in general and our commitments under the Lom Convention in particular: it is quite the opposite!
The financial subculture that we are currently sustaining is creating major administrative weaknesses.
We are meant to grant discharge, even though we have no influence or effective political control over how the resources are spent.
That has to change, not least in order to improve the quality of our development policy!

Refusing discharge will, therefore, send the right signal to the Intergovernmental Conference, to tell them that it is time they came up with an institutional solution to this dilemma.
I also expect the conference on the revision of the Treaty to produce clarification of the common foreign and security policy and associated budgetary matters.
It is unacceptable that the Council should decide on joint actions  such as the one in Mostar  and that these should be financed from the EU budget, without the Council at the same time adhering to the procedures for managing the appropriations.
There is a major procedural loophole, and unfortunately it now also affects discharge, because at the end of the day, Parliament cannot discharge the Council.

I am grateful to Mr Wynn for including the conclusions of my working paper in the motion for a resolution, and I am very hopeful that the special report on foreign and security policy announced by the Court of Auditors will give us a good basis for making more detailed proposals to the conference on the revision of the Treaty.