This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Alastair Jones:

Mr President, we very much welcome the opening of the British Presidency of the European Union.
Although the Labour Party has changed its mind six times on our membership of the EU since we joined  25  years ago, for the last few years it has been fairly consistent.
I hope the UK Presidency will be a great success.

Before I come back to the presidency, I should just like to deal with one or two remarks made by Mr Cook in his speech.
It is extraordinary that he should talk about bringing the European Parliament closer to the people when his government is about to impose a system of proportional representation on the United Kingdom which is, as I understand it  and we are still waiting to find the definition  a closed list system.
Although this is relevant to the European Parliament and although I know that Mr Cook is a longtime proponent of PR, would he agree with the attitude taken by his colleague, Mr Straw, the Home Secretary, that the electoral regions will be very large, and that it is highly unlikely that an individual candidate will be known by more than a fraction of the electorate in that region?
Voters cannot, therefore, be expected to make an informed choice between candidates of the same party.
That in itself speaks volumes about the Labour Partys attitude toward the European Parliament.

I should also like to say that the fact that two Members of the European Parliament have now to leave the Labour Party in order to speak freely, one sitting with the Communists and one with the Greens  one who told me this morning that he was expelled by fax  suggests to me that the controlfreak tendencies of the Labour Party are now becoming known to people in Europe as a whole.
I would add that, since we are all concerned about candidate selection, quoting from the Conservative Partys own manual on candidate selection, it says:  Edmund Burkes words still hold good today.
Your representative owes you not his industry only, but his judgement and he betrays, instead of serving you, if he sacrifices it to your opinion.
Authoritative instructions, which the member is bound blindly and implicitly to obey, though contrary to the dearest convictions of his judgement and conscience, are utterly unknown to the laws of the land and against the tenor of our constitution.
The Conservative Party will stand by those principles, unlike the Labour Party, which...

(Murmurs (of dissent) ) we understand, will allow the National Executive Committee to make the rankings, the order of the list and the selections in toto , in secret and impose those candidates on the United Kingdom.

(Murmurs (of dissent) )I am going to return to the presidency because that is what I am expected to speak on.

Conservatives largely agree with the governments priorities for the presidency: enlargement, jobs, cleaning up the environment and the fight against crime.
These are all important policy objectives that we too would have put high on the agenda.
We hope progress will be made on enlargement.
It is a historic challenge.
We have a moral duty to embrace the people of Eastern and Central Europe who lived under a cruel and alien tyranny for so long.
Enlargement is in all our interests because it will dramatically increase the single market.
Indeed, one of the many reasons why the Treaty of Amsterdam left so much to be desired was its total failure to get to grips with this challenge.
On enlargement, Labour has a clear objective for the presidency and the setting of a detailed timetable for those applicants in the first wave.
I hope they succeed, despite the fiasco of the treatment of Turkey at Luxembourg.

Britains record on jobs is far better than the European average.
Unfortunately, Labours approach to this question is likely to lead to more unemployment, not less.
Any party that can contend that signing up to the social chapter and the regulations made, and to be made under it, increases flexibility in the marketplace does not deserve to be taken seriously.
Europe needs to tackle head on the unpalatable truth that unless we cut our social costs and free up our labour markets, we will be outpriced and outperformed by the rest of the world.
Unacceptable levels of unemployment will persist.
Red tape and regulation are luxuries Europe can no longer afford.

I have been distracted during the course of this address.
I have had far more reaction from this Assembly than Mr Cook did earlier on.
His speech was heard in almost total silence.

(The President cut the speaker off)