This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Alastair Finlayson:

Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are today voting on the European Parliaments opinion on an agreement which, significantly, was signed this very week, two days before this debate.

Parliament expressed its opinion on the substance of this agreement last June, with a clear majority.
At that time I talked about the reasons why I considered that it did not accord with the spirit and letter of European legislation.
European legislation was and is aimed at the total prohibition of all these cruel and inhumane methods of killing and trapping animals.
Briefly, and apart from questions of cruelty, we are opposed to the nonselective nature of this type of trap.
As you know, it is impossible to prevent the trapping of species which in principle are not supposed to be trapped, because the traps are not selective.

We also opposed the lack of any clear definition of (I quote the English term) conventional leghold restraining traps .
We opposed the authorization of the use of any of these traps in water, rivers or lakes, as killing traps.
At the same time, we were very strongly opposed to the fact that in the wording of the agreement the Commission had accepted a period of five minutes for animals trapped by these devices to agonize and die.
I would point out to my fellowMembers that the Commissions proposal was thirty seconds.
And it has accepted five minutes as a dying period for animals caught in killing traps.

This shows that the Commission wanted an agreement, rather than a good agreement, because the issue at stake was not to create any more problems with the commercial agenda between the United States and Europe, and between Canada and Europe, when there are already so many others.
And that is why the Parliament has so often come out against the substance of this agreement.
I would nevertheless like to state my own view at this point on the moment we have reached and on the tactical aspect of the agreement, since we are discussing its substance.

The European Union is this very day in the process of entering into a new agreement, this time with the United States of America.
So far as I could see from the two texts I specially obtained, this agreement with the United States of America is even weaker than the agreement with Canada and Russia which we are now examining.
This agreement with the United States of America is worse, because it allows more time, it gives the United States longer to prohibit the use of traps with jaws.
And the worst thing of all is the question of supervision and implementation, because we all know that is in the hands of the authorities of the various States of the Union rather than those of the Washington Federal Government.

Lastly, this agreement is worse because in this era of spindoctors, when we look at what the American Press says about this agreement on the basis of the negotiators statements, we conclude that it is not the same thing as the European Press says on the basis of the information supplied by the Commission.

And in particular, with regard to the derogations, that is to day the possibility of nonimplementation of what is written into the agreement, I should like to ask the Commission what the American representative, Charlene Barshefsky, has already put in her letter to Minister Klaus Kinkel, where she says that these derogations will be applied in cases of extreme necessity and that they will be the same as in the agreement with Canada and Russia.
And I would ask Commissioner Sir Leon Brittan in English:

Will the Commission kindly confirm that there are no derogations as far as the phasing out of conventional leghold traps is concerned?
Further, I should like to ask Sir Leon what the Commission will do if the United States and Canada try to use the derogations.

I would point out to my German colleagues  who, I assume, are here in the House  that the letter in question was motivated by the very reasonable doubts expressed by the German Government on this agreement.
My friends, if it had not been for pressure from the European Parliament we would not even have an agreement with Canada here today; because last January, as you know, there was an attempt in the CITES Committee to allow free exports from Canada, Russia and the United States before we even had an agreement.

If it had not been for this Parliament, the first version of the agreement, which is even worse than this one, would have been approved.
If it had not been for the pressure of European public opinion, which we represent, the first versions of the agreements with the Americans would have been approved.

My friends, we must keep up the pressure.
We have all expressed our views now on the substance of the agreement.
It would be a tactical disaster if at this moment we were to adopt any position other than the rejection of this agreement.