This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Jennifer Jones:

.
Mr President, this debate was very timely and it has provided me with food for thought for the EUChina summit in Helsinki.
I should like to add that the vast majority of subjects raised tonight will also feature clearly on the summit agenda and I will report back to you on that.

Let me make a general point on the relationship between trade and human rights, which is a central theme of this report.
I am not sure whether specific linkages are desirable or feasible, but I would argue that this is an inevitable connection, insofar as Chinas opening is strongly predicated on its WTO accession, which, apart from frequently raised important issues like intellectual property rights, involves also an overhaul of the Chinese legal system, with an emphasis on the rule of law.
It must be said that real progress has been made.
That is fundamental in moving forward in of the human rights questions raised today and it is even happening almost by stealth.

Let me come back to some specific points that have been raised tonight.
Firstly, on Tibet, we share the concerns expressed by the European Parliament regarding the human rights situation in Tibet and in particular the preservation of the cultural, religious and linguistic identity of the Tibetan people.
We have regularly addressed the issue of Tibet in the framework of the EUChina bilateral dialogue on human rights, as well as at the highest political level, including summits.
As part of this overall policy visvis Tibet, for many years we have been asking for the establishment of a direct dialogue between the Dalai Lama and the Chinese authorities, as that is the only realistic way to find a peaceful and lasting solution to the question.
We have therefore taken note of the talks between the envoys of the Dalai Lama and the representatives of China.

Let me also say a word on Taiwan.
We have been consistent throughout in urging the two sides to resolve their issues through a peaceful dialogue.
In this regard we have also noted some recent positive developments in the crossstrait situation.
We have to recognise that there are new Chinese efforts to restart discussions with Chinese and Taiwanese opposition politicians.
Flights across the Straits have resumed, but an inclusive dialogue with all parties in Taiwan is also needed.
This is important.

Let me also make a point concerning our bilateral relationship and the relationship with the United States of America.
As Mr Lambsdorff said, it is important to talk about China to the US about common concerns, for example on open markets and human rights, because we can achieve more together visvis China.
However, it is also clear that a strategic dialogue with the US, which we have at official level, does not mean that we have to agree right across the board.

On the longstanding issue of the arms embargo, it is true that we are willing to continue working towards a possible lifting of the embargo, on the basis of our joint statement of  2004 , the EUChina Summit and the subsequent European Council conclusions.
However, at the same time, we have left China with no doubt as to the importance of progress on human rights in order to create a more positive atmosphere for lifting the embargo.
We have also made clear our commitment to ensure that lifting the embargo would not lead to any substantive change in the strategic balance in the Asian region and that the national security of friendly and allied countries would be fully taken into account.
So, again, this is one of those issues that is very important.

On the very specific and important issue of shoes, let me say that on  30 August  2006  the Commission adopted a proposal to impose antidumping duties on certain leather shoes from China and Vietnam.
Reflecting the finding that dumping exists and EU producers are suffering harm, we have proposed a duty of  16 . 5  for China and  10  for Vietnam for certain leather shoes.
This proposal now passes to the Member States, which have one month in which to consider it for adoption.
That is the situation at present.

On the sectoral dialogues, my services produce regular updates and these are on our websites.
A further update will be available shortly.

I should like to close with two general statements.
Again, as I said at the start, we are committed to human rights, social and economic rights, which include in particular freedom of expression, religion, association and protection of the rights of minorities.
I should also like to say that the death penalty is one of those questions continually being addressed.
I should also like to reemphasise what I said before about the Falun Gong.

Finally, in response to Mr Brok, and as I said at the beginning, we need China to become a responsible member of the international community, but more than just a stakeholder: it needs to be a positive and an active contributing partner.
It is a very important member of the international community, being a permanent member of the Security Council.
All of that will feature prominently in our communication, which will be available in the autumn.