This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Victor Whittacker:

.
Mr President, on  1  May we celebrated the second anniversary of the latest enlargement.
Looking at the past two years, we have every reason to be satisfied and proud, even though at the time there was no lack of doomsday scenarios.
Yet the Cassandras have been proven wrong.

We can succeed equally well in the cases of Bulgaria and Romania.
Both countries are working hard to tackle the remaining shortcomings to fully meet the criteria of accession.

The Commissions duty is to assess the progress made by the two countries to see if they are truly ready for accession.
It is our goal to welcome Bulgaria and Romania as members in  2007  and it is our duty, as the guardian of the Treaties, to ensure that once they join they really meet the carefully calibrated conditions.
Hence, when we last met in late April, I promised you a carefully calibrated decision that maintains the momentum of reforms up to and beyond accession.
Now you have such a decision: Bulgaria and Romania may join in January  2007  on condition that they show the necessary resolve, mentality and results in tackling the outstanding shortcomings.
By early October, we will report on their progress and consider whether the date can be maintained.

Bulgaria and Romania have indeed undergone a monitoring process that is unprecedented in its scope and intensity.
Concerning the political criteria, while much has been achieved, there is still room for further progress.
It is necessary effectively to implement the reform of the judiciary and to reinforce the fight against corruption, particularly at high level.

Bulgaria needs seriously to intensify its efforts to crack down on organised crime and corruption.
It also needs to demonstrate clear evidence of results in the fight against corruption, in terms of investigations and judicial proceedings.

Building on the progress made so far, Romania needs to continue its efforts and show further results in the fight against corruption.

In the area of rights of minorities, further efforts are needed by both Bulgaria and Romania.

On the economic criteria, the transformation of the two countries is a remarkable success that is a winwin situation for everybody in Europe.
Both countries have registered robust growth in the last years, creating a zone of muchneeded economic dynamism at our southeastern corner.

As to the , our legal order, significant progress has been achieved and most of the areas are unproblematic, provided that the current pace of preparations is maintained.
However, in some areas the preparations require increased efforts, and we also have certain issues of serious concern.
Unless the countries take immediate and decisive corrective action, they will not be ready in these areas of serious concern at the envisaged date of accession.

Since October last year, the areas of serious concern have been brought down from  16  to  6  in Bulgaria and from  14  to  4  in Romania.
They still include certain agricultural, food safety and veterinary issues, as well as the control and management of EU funds.
Should these serious concerns persist, we would not hesitate to use all our human rights and the remedial tools.
Our report specifies the safeguards and other protective measures under the existing legislation that we have at our disposal.
These safeguards could be invoked if certain limited problems persist at accession in the areas, for instance, of the internal market and justice and home affairs, where we can also establish a monitoring mechanism based on the Accession Treaty.

On the use of EU money, the will require a suspension of payments in case of serious problems.
In agriculture, we even propose novel, stricter measures, based on the Accession Treaty That sends a strong signal that we are careful with our money.

I trust that todays decision and its rigour will convince the national parliaments that have not yet ratified the Accession Treaty to do so.
The Treaty itself includes the conditions, safeguards and monitoring mechanisms that ensure the countries can join only once they are ready, and that once they have joined, they must respect their obligations as members.

Let me express our appreciation for the support of the European Parliament for the accession process of Bulgaria and Romania.
As agreed between President Barroso and President Borrell last year, we have listened carefully to your views before presenting our position on whether or not to postpone the accessions.
I am sure this constructive, transparent and rigorous approach will bring the best results for Bulgaria and Romania, and for Europe.
