This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Marc Cameron:

Member of the Commission.
 Madam President, I would like to thank Parliament for its interest in the Arctic and also say how much we appreciated your resolution on Arctic governance last October.
It gave political impetus to the Commissions own work on the communication that has already been mentioned, The EU and the Arctic region, which was adopted last November.

Now, why is this so important?
We share your concern that the Arctic region deserves international attention as never ever before.
Scientific evidence shows that climate change is occurring much faster in the Arctic than in the rest of the world.
In the past six years alone, the ice cap has lost up to half its thickness near the North Pole and may have passed a tipping point.
That is a clear warning sign we would be foolish to ignore.
The radical transformation of the Arctic is having an impact on its people, its landscape and its wildlife  on land and at sea.

Therefore, now is the time to act.
That is why we adopted the communication, which is the first step towards an EU policy for the Arctic, laying the foundations for a more comprehensive approach.
The communication focuses on three broad goals: protecting and preserving the Arctic, in full cooperation with its inhabitants; promoting the sustainable use of resources; and beefing up multilateral governance.

The proposals in the communication are the outcome of a very thorough analysis made by the Commission.
This involved consultations with all main Arctic stakeholders, including both EU and nonEU Arctic states.
This was all the more necessary because many EU activities and key developments of global scope, such as the integrated maritime policy or climate change, have an effect on the Arctic.

So, based on these discussions and in light of the motion for a resolution tabled for discussion today, let me stress that the Arctic region differs from the Antarctic in a number of key aspects.
Unlike the Antarctic, which is a vast, uninhabited continent surrounded by an ocean, the Arctic is a maritime space, surrounded by inhabited land belonging to sovereign countries.

So the idea of establishing a binding legal regime specifically designed for the Arctic is, unfortunately, difficult, because none of the five Arctic Ocean coastal states  Denmark, Norway, Canada, Russia and the United States  is in favour of such a regime.
I therefore fear that such a proposal would at this stage not only be ineffective but could prove to be detrimental to the EUs role and credibility in overall Arctic cooperation.
Rather than expending efforts on that cause, the EUs interests and objectives are better served by building greater multilateral cooperation and making better use of the existing legal instruments.

Through the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) and other general conventions, there is already an extensive international legal framework in place.
The UNCLOS is also the basis for settling disputes, including maritime delimitation.
We want to see these conventions fully implemented and, very importantly, adapted to the Arctic specificities.
For example, we propose a regulatory framework for sustainable fisheries management where areas and species are not yet covered by other instruments.

Secondly, we will work closely with the International Maritime Organisation, developing and enforcing solid international standards for safer Arctic navigation, respecting human safety and environmental sustainability.
This means either extending existing legislation or adopting new legislation.

Thirdly, we will also defend the internationally recognised principles of freedom of navigation and the right of innocent passage.
Coastal states should avoid discriminatory steps concerning navigational rules.
Any measures will have to be applied in full compliance with the International Law of the Sea.

Fourthly, it is not realistic to propose an international moratorium on the extraction of Arctic resources.
The bulk of the estimated reserves of minerals, oil and gas are either on the sovereign territory of the Arctic states or in their exclusive economic zones, and some of them have farreaching plans for further exploration activities.
However, we insist that the extraction and use of Arctic resources must always adhere to the highest possible standards for the environment and sustainability.

We share Parliaments concerns about the urgency of action in this region, and our communication puts forward a set of coherent and specific proposals.
Based on this, we look forward to continued cooperation with you as we develop an EU Arctic policy.

Let us never lose sight of our common goal, and let us work together with the Arctic states and the international community to find the best and most effective way of preserving and protecting the Arctic for future generations.