This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Annette White:

Member of the Commission.
 Mr President, we are at a moment of transition in the Middle East.
Soon, most probably, there will be a new Israeli Government.
There is already a new US administration, currently defining its foreign policy priorities.
And we may soon face transition in the occupied Palestinian territory.
So changing dynamics can create opportunities for new engagement.

However, there is no denying that the recent conflict resulted in enormous human suffering and destruction.
It has left the Middle East peace process  we have to confess  in a particularly fragile state.
This House knows that only too well, and I refer to the discussions and debates that we have already had here.

This is clearly not where we wanted to be at the beginning of  2009 .
But if there is, some day, to be peace between the Israelis and the Palestinians, the only way forward is to do all we can to get the talks back on track.
This human tragedy in Gaza has had a huge impact on the region.
I returned only last night from a trip to Syria and Lebanon, and I will certainly also say something about that but, in particular, let me say that what we need to do is to make clear to all Israeli leaders that the EU expects sustained commitment to the peace process and to the twostate solution.

We also need to reinforce the message to the Palestinians that a strong Palestinian Authority with effective leadership over the entire occupied Palestinian territory is essential both for the reunification of the West Bank and Gaza and to get the peace process back on track.
That is why the European Union is supporting the efforts of Egypt, Turkey and others to achieve this.

With the new US administration, we need to agree a joint way forward.
I spoke on the phone to Secretary Clinton to that end only last week.
She agreed on the need for a lasting ceasefire and a return to the peace process, which is absolutely crucial.
We also agreed that the Quartet should consult closely on these matters before the end of the month.
I am glad that the American administration sees the Quartet as a very important institution for going forward on peace.

Finally, we need to step up our own engagement with the Arab League countries.
The consensus for peace is weakening, not only in Israel and within the occupied Palestinian territory, but also within the Arab League, where worrying divisions are appearing.

To that end, as I just said, I have just returned from Syria and Lebanon, where I met President Assad in Syria, President Sleiman in Lebanon, and other key partners.
The recent conflict has badly damaged negotiations not only on the Palestinian, but also on the Syrian, track.
We therefore exchanged views on the peace process at length.
I reiterated the very strong support of the European Union for the Arab peace initiative, and I urged partners to maintain their commitment to it, because it offers a serious framework for regional peace talks.

I also stressed the milestone decision taken by Syria and Lebanon to establish diplomatic relations, and pushed for completion of all steps in this process.
In both countries, we discussed practical ways in which the European Union could support the process of reform.
In Lebanon, I reiterated our readiness in principle to deploy an EU election observation mission, and I have already decided that an exploratory mission should go there immediately.

The European Union as a whole has been extremely active in recent weeks both on the political and practical fronts.
On the political front, since I last reported to you in January, we have all pursued our intensive diplomatic activity.
We have been at the forefront of calls for a ceasefire and have worked with Egypt and others to make a lasting ceasefire possible.

The Council conclusions in January indicated that the EU is developing a work plan for a lasting ceasefire.
This document identifies six areas for action including humanitarian response, the prevention of smuggling to Gaza, the reopening of the Gaza crossing points, reconstruction, intraPalestinian reconciliation and the resumption of the peace process.

Much very delicate work is going on.
To give but a flavour of the pace of activity we have all been involved in: for instance, I was at a working dinner of the Paris CoChairs on  15  January, the Summit meetings in Sharm elSheikh and Jerusalem on  18  January, and EU ministerial meetings with Israel on  21  January and with a group composed of Egypt, the Palestinian Authority, Jordan and Turkey on  25  January.
In addition, Commissioner Louis Michel, who is responsible for humanitarian aid, visited Gaza on  24  and  25  January.

We are in regular contact with Quartet colleagues.
We had important meetings as a troika in Moscow.
I had this telephone conversation with Clinton; Javier Solana was there in Washington, and we are agreed on the need to renew the peace process.
We continue our road map monitoring work, and we also deploy statebuilding assistance, including in sensitive areas such as the rule of law and border management.

The EUs action strategy for the Middle East also foresees EU support for specific final status issues, for instance, for Jerusalem, refugees and security arrangements.

In practical terms, the EU has prioritised delivery of humanitarian assistance to the people of Gaza.
The Commission has already mobilised EUR  10  million practically overnight, and another EUR  32  million has now been committed for the coming period.

In early March, the Egyptian Government is organising an international conference in Sharm elSheikh in support of the Palestinian economy for the reconstruction of Gaza.
We, as the Commission, will be a cosponsor of this event.
I am delighted that I had the opportunity to discuss the pledge that the Commission intends to make with the Chairs of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Budgets at an early stage here in Parliament on  2  February.
Thank you again for your support.

The problem at the moment is not only funding, but access, particularly to Gaza.
We have been very vocal, both in public and in private, about the unacceptable closure of the Gaza crossings.
This House will wish to join me today in calling, once again, for the crossings to be fully opened.

(Applause)

When access does improve  as I have no doubt it will  we may then have to review our financial forecast.
At that point, I may need to come back to discuss this with you.
I hope I will again be able to count on your support.

Honourable Members, you can count on the commitment of the Commission  and also on my personal commitment  to do everything in our power to help bring peace as swiftly as possible to one of the most troubled parts of the world.
We will certainly continue to work very closely with this House.

(Applause)