This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Nancy Finlayson:

Mr President, last year when I spoke in this debate, I said that annual reports provide an opportunity not to look backwards, to assign blame and criticize, but to look forward and learn from the difficulties that we have had in programme implementation.
In short, we should not be revisiting the same old problems when we have this debate.
Unfortunately, that seems to be too often the case.
The key problem that I want to highlight today in connection with the Teverson report, in the light of the budgetary debate in  1997  and Councils decision on  25 th July to cut structural fund payments in some areas, is the perceived problem of underutilization of structural funds.
We urgently have to take this issue on but what I fear is happening is an attempt by some Member States to renege on agreements that they made in Edinburgh and fail to meet the targets they agreed.
That is something that we have to take up because it could result in a longterm discrediting of regional policy.

I would like to commend the Commissioner for her decisive action in putting a proposal to the Venice informal Council to improve the efficiency of structural funds.
I would like to commend the Commission on its SCM  2000  programme and of course, in the context of the Teverson Report I would like to thank Mr Teverson for taking on board my own Groups amendments in committee to this report.

There are, of course, areas where I believe we can improve performance: better training for administrators through exchanges; streamlining administrative processes; strengthening the role of regions and local authorities; combatting the irregularities in fraud by establishing clear audit trails; better access to information.
But some of his proposals would require a bureaucracy in Brussels ten times the size of the current Commission.
It is simply not realistic to ask the Commission to monitor every individual payment to final beneficiaries.
Member States must take their own commitments in these areas seriously.

I fear that the proposals will come to nothing without a change of mind by several Member States, my own of course included.
They now seem to specialize in putting new obstacles in the way and of course the latest one is meeting the EMU convergence criteria.
We cannot stress enough that closing the gap between poor and rich Member States  achieving cohesion  means Member States must take the responsibility seriously.
I am very unhappy that the nontakeup of funding has been a dominant theme in the media and is discrediting the good work that we do in structural funds.
I believe that the Member States are now moving towards selfimposed nonutilization of funding and slowingdown our processes, which will lead to problems in the longer term.
When Member States signed up to the Edinburgh Agreement, they knew the commitments they were entering into; they knew they had to meet the convergence criteria and it is simply not good enough now to make a linkage which is not in the interests of our regional policy programmes.

I therefore say, on behalf of my Group, that we reject the attempt by the French Government to link structural fund spending to EMU criteria.
We cannot change the rules halfway through the programmes and we must denounce the hypocrisy of the Council of Ministers of paying lipservice to launch actions on unemployment and then reneging on their commitments to tackle unemployment through structural funds.
The real threat to implementation comes from the Member States themselves.
We need more accountability, we need more transparency, we need more devolution but we above all need more commitment.
I would like to ask the Commissioner to continue with her annual reports but to come to us on a regular basis so that we can help her improve utilization by putting pressure on the Member States, so that we can take swift action when bottlenecks and obstacles occur.

We must not get to a situation where Member States are able to draw false conclusions, undermining our spending programmes where we know that they are vital to citizens opportunities.
I therefore would like to encourage the Commissioner in her work, to support her in making the case for a strong regional policy and for keeping the focus on our goal of economic and social cohesion.