This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Philip Bush:

author.
 Madam President, Mr Simpson apologises for not being present during the discussion on the ash cloud crisis.
Ironically, in view of this evenings discussion, he has been caught up in the flight restrictions related to the ash cloud restrictions in the UK and therefore has been unable to travel to Strasbourg for the discussion.
I will therefore be speaking on his behalf this evening.

The oral question on the volcanic ash crisis is just as relevant today, in the context of the ongoing disruption to airspace, as it was at the time of the initial eruption of the Icelandic volcano last month, when we saw much of EU airspace closed for six days.
We are now dealing not only with the aftermath of that disruption and its financial impact but also with the present ongoing uncertainty of continued and prolonged disruption to European airspace.

While I believe that some important lessons have been learned and acted on following the unprecedented scale, duration and cause of the initial airspace shutdown, it is clear that the response at European level needs to be stepped up a gear in the face of ongoing disruptions.

Faced with the challenges that the unprecedented nature and unspecified duration and the disruption is causing to air travel, I am concerned today to get assurances that the mechanisms we have in place for coping with the disruption are working effectively and that, where gaps have been identified over the last few weeks, these are being adequately addressed.

I am pleased to say that the Air Passengers Rights Regulation has proved vitally important in providing a safety net to ensure that it is not the passengers who bear the brunt of the financial consequences of the disruption and who are not left stranded by the chaos.
The airspace closure has, however, raised important questions about airlines fulfilling their obligations when it comes to air passengers rights, especially in the light of any compensation afforded to the aviation industry.

What feedback is the Commission getting on the treatment of passengers, and what assurances can it give that airlines are fulfilling their obligations in line with the legislation?
Furthermore, the current situation has exposed the vulnerability of those passengers booked on thirdcountry airlines for whom the air passengers rights legislation does not apply.
How does the Commission propose to address this gap in the legislation?

We also  very early on in this crisis  recognised the heavy financial losses suffered by the aviation industry during the airspace shutdown.
My concern with any compensation package made available to the aviation industry is to ensure that compensation is directed at the different sectors of the aviation industry  not just the airlines  and that the compensation measures are of an EUwide nature.

I know that some Member States will be more sympathetic than others when it comes to giving financial aid to their airlines.
What assurances is the Commission able to give that some conditions will be levelled to avoid any distortions in the compensation handed out at Member State level and to ensure a level playing field?

I now turn to the most pressing concern today, which is over the procedures in place for defining noflight zones in the EU.
The continued disruption to European airspace has once again put the procedures applied for defining noflight zones under the spotlight.
There are concerns that Member States are being over cautious in their implementation of noflight zones and that aeroplanes are safe to fly amid higher densities of ash than are currently allowed by EU rules.

The ongoing closure and opening of airspace by Member States over the last few weeks has very much highlighted the need for a more joinedup approach at EU level, rather than the differentiated approach we are currently seeing.
I am also aware that the Commission has put renewed emphasis on improving data collection and modelling methodologies to give a more detailed picture of the risks involved for aeroplanes flying through an ash cloud.

How does the new information we have impact on the restrictions currently in place and the definition of the noflight zones?

Finally, we have seen the value of increased European coordination when it comes to responding to the ash cloud crisis.
Further areas where we have recognised the importance of greater cooperation include the acceleration of the Single European Sky initiative and the creation of a mobility action plan to help the EU cope better during such crises.