This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Sarah Green:

Mr President, I and the House have listened extremely carefully this morning to Mr Prodis opening statement.
I thank him very much for the thoughtful and intelligent approach he took to the opening of this debate.
That we are here today looking at the ratification of a new President of the Commission, six months before it was due according to the timetable, is a reflection of the changing roles and expectations of the European Union.

We have seen the EU dealing in areas and working on issues which now affect the lives of the citizens of the European Union in a very direct way: the launching of the euro, soon not to be just a tool for banks and institutions but also the coins and notes in the pockets of our citizens and, this week, the coming into being of the Amsterdam Treaty with its changing emphasis towards policies that affect people and in particular job creation.
When you are talking about jobs and the money in peoples pockets, you are talking about issues that very clearly affect the lives of every citizen of the European Union.

It is no coincidence therefore that there has been a greater concentration on the systems of governance in the European Union.
These systems were found wanting and they have failed in the last few weeks.
We need to see demonstrable change.
The next Commission must reflect a new approach to structure and responsibility, not for the sake of form.
We are not just looking for a Commission that looks different or pays lip service to difference.
We want a European Commission that is different and will deliver policies for people.

We expect that Commission to be different, to reflect the real work to be done.
If I may say so, we do not want a Commission with structures and portfolios that simply reflect a division of the spoils between twenty Commissioners for whom the President must find a role and must find a job in order to make them look as if they are all important.
We want a serious attempt to create a dynamic approach to delivering policies for the people of the Union.

After today, Mr Prodi, you and what you will do will be scrutinised as never before.
What appointments you make to your office, the multinational nature or flavour or otherwise of your staff, the gender balance, all these will assume an importance quite disproportionate to their actual significance.
Your ability to demonstrate that you have had a role that befits the President of the Commission in deciding who should be in your Commission and what their portfolios should be  all these things will give your presidency and your Commission its opening strengths and, indeed, could well give them its opening weaknesses.

I was glad that today you concentrated very much on the broader approach to your political thinking and programme for the European Union.
In your last intervention in this House  which we all recognised was a very preliminary one, indeed you said so yourself  you made a largely economic presentation.
Today you have looked at a much broader scope of policies with which you will be seeking to deal.
We have had a flavour of some of your ideas, for instance on foreign and security policy, on home and justice affairs.
I very much welcome your thinking in these areas.

Your emphasis on the competence of Commissioners and their ability and willingness to act as a team is very much to be welcomed.
Your emphasis on structuring the portfolios on the basis of delivering policies and your undertaking on transparency and openness are also very welcome.
Of course I do not need to say that we have had such commitments before but we take you at your word that you are serious about these.

I have a criticism and I would appreciate your comments in your concluding statement.
Your speech today talked very little of people.
You mentioned employment but you did not talk much about the need for the fight against social exclusion, the struggle for a fair and just Europe for all our citizens, the need to support Member States in the eradication of poverty, in particular amongst the young and the old in our societies, the need for equal opportunities for men and women, for black and white citizens of the European Union.

Mr Prodi, your humanity was clear in your speech.
Your commitment to peace on this continent is to be commended.
I would have liked to hear a bit more about your belief in a multiracial, multiethnic, multicultural Europe.
I hope you can reassure us of this in your conclusion.
By way of conclusion, for me, as a Londoner, this weekend the importance of support for a Europe of fairness and justice for all our citizens, the need for us to be committed to the fight against intolerance, racism and hatred, against those concepts, was brought very graphically and tragically to our minds.

This European Union is about a vision for the future.
The big issue for our continent, for our economy, is also about people.
If you are able to combine these elements successfully with a new Commission structure and ethos, you will have our support.

Applause