This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Katarina Bauer:

Mr President, the Wynn, Blak and Bsch reports propose to give the Commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the general Community budget for  1995 , as well as for the budget of the European Coal and Steel Community and of the European Development Fund.
The Commission is committed to a careful followup to the items raised in the reports and in the resolution.
In fact, considerable work is in progress to address Parliaments major preoccupations.

I would like to mention some of this work.
First, on progress made in the context of the SEM  2000  initiative.
The Member States are now gradually accepting the need for a joint approach to tackling the financial management issues which the Commission launched in SEM  2000 , in large part at the insistence of Parliament.
A number of Member States have, for example, already accepted the invitation to respond directly to points made in the Courts reports.
The contributions will be reflected in the followup report later this year, as requested in the Wynn report.
That will give you an opportunity to have the information for which Mr Bardong asked.

On the consistent application of eligibility rules for the structural funds, an acceptable solution has now found unanimous approval in Council.
The adoption of the definitive decision is on the agenda of the Commission next week.
In the future, clear guidelines on recurrent eligibility problems will be included in all programming decisions.
This will represent a major step towards the improvement in financial management.
It represents an effective response to repeated criticisms by the Court and the European Parliament.

The second key question concerns possible financial corrections in the structural funds, to which Mr Dankert made reference.
I want to reply to some of your comments.
On this question progress still needs to be made.
The Commission proposes to proceed with a twintrack approach.
Firstly, we are tabling a draft Commission Regulation to clarify Member States responsibilities for financial control; this will be based on Article  23  of the present Council Regulation on the management of structural funds.
Secondly, we shall clarify our internal guidance on the circumstances in which net financial corrections should be made under the terms of the existing legislation.
This will be based on Article  24  of the above Council Regulation.

With regard to the method, I would like to be a little more precise because I know Parliaments great interest in this issue.
I want to mention the following four points: firstly, the Commissions approach involves the clarification of the application of the existing structural fund regulations using existing legal powers; secondly, it is not seeking to impose new administrative structures on the Member States.
The intention is rather to introduce adequate minimum standards of control which should be applied consistently throughout the Union; thirdly, the Commission is not proposing any fundamental change in the programming approach under which Member States are generally free to switch finance between eligible projects; fourthly and most importantly, it is appropriate to clarify those circumstances in which net financial corrections should be made without the possibility of substitution  for example where there has been a systematic failure in financial control or a refusal to cooperate with the Commission.
Our intention is to apply this fourth position which means net transfers back.

I see that the resolution before you invites the Commission to make a proposal to amend Article  24  of Council Regulation  425388  to ensure that effective corrective action is taken in the event of irregularities.
I can confirm that we have not ruled out this option for the future.
We have already undertaken to review the relevant provisions of the Council Regulation before the start of the next programming period and we will take full account of Parliaments views in that context.
I find it quite natural that when we make new proposals for structural fund programmes after  2000 , a new regulation is also a part of this global package.
We are not talking about the very distant future.
It is the year  2000  that they enter into force but proposals must be made before that.

However, I agree with Mr Dankert that we cannot afford to wait for this change in  2000  to take action in this area.
Improvements can be made within the scope of the existing regulation, as I said, and it is for this reason that the Commission intends to proceed in the short term with the aforementioned twintrack approach.

In the context of SEM  2000 , efforts are being made to improve cooperation with the Member States on budget forecasting and execution.
The tight budget constraints in the runup to the third stage of EMU reinforce the importance of obtaining the most uptodate and realistic estimates of budgetary requirements.
We need to take this forward urgently, with a view to the preparation of the  1998  budget.
Actually, this issue was discussed yesterday in the trialogue between the Council and Parliament.
We had a problem with the forecasts in relation to agriculture.
We must make our budget proposal in April.
That is very far in advance of  1998 .
If we have a chance to take a further look later this year and perhaps to send an amending and rectifying letter to Parliament that would give a more solid basis for next years budget decisions.

Parliaments rapporteur on SEM  2000 , Mr Colom i Naval, has been invited to attend the next meeting of the Personal Representatives Group in May and then we will try to conclude the issue of the financial corrections.

I shall touch briefly upon two other points.
Firstly, the statement of assurance or DAS.
As last year, Terry Wynns report describes very clearly the results and the difficulties.
I share his unease about the numbers and their interpretation.
I would like to emphasize that the problem is that there is a considerable lack of experience.
The results from the first two DAS exercises have differed without good explanations on the ground.
This underlines the experimental nature of DAS of which we were all aware from the beginning.
It will take a few years before it is sufficiently mature to provide assurance not only for the auditor but also for the auditee.
Until then all the numbers and especially conclusions resulting from a DAS exercise should be treated with prudence.
Of course when we have discussions next summer with the Court of Auditors on the basis of the DAS for  1996 , we will take your wishes into account and we hope as far as possible to arrive at a common language while respecting, of course, the independence of the Court of Auditors in the exercise.

Secondly, on PHARE, the difficulties described by the Court and underlined by the Wynn report can only be acknowledged.
As a first reply, the Commission decided on  19  March new policy guidelines for PHARE.
They reorient PHARE to two main priorities  institution building and investment support.
The management of PHARE is also to be reformed.
There is to be a simplification of procedures, decentralization of implementation and an increased role for the EU delegations.
Mr Tomlinson mentioned my remarks last year about concentrating on bigger projects which are easier to manage, to have a sufficient critical mass.
PHARE reorientation is a good example of that.

We are trying to go further in some other areas in the budget.
It is not easy in the Commission but you know as well as I do that it will not be easy in Parliament either.
We must remember that we are now running a budget in a Union of  370  million people.
Small budget lines with a very minor critical mass are actually impossible to execute in the way which would be efficient.
The administrative costs are often higher than the budget sums concerned and there are no possibilities for control.
So we should take a critical look at what can be implemented and how we implement it.

I heard the comment that we have not executed all the budgets.
Sometimes there are sums in the budget lines which cannot be easily executed.
We should not only discuss the political priorities but also how these can be translated into budgetary language which can be implemented.

Coming back to PHARE, further elements will become clearer when the Commission presents its preaccession strategy after the conclusion of the Intergovernmental Conference.
This work will be undertaken in close collaboration with Parliament.
It should also facilitate the preparations for the  1998  budget.

Mr Blak asked me two or three very detailed questions.
I hope I can come back to them after consulting my services.
Perhaps next week we can have bilateral contacts on these issues.

Finally, I would conclude by thanking the rapporteurs, Terry Wynn, Freddy Blak and Herbert Bsch, the chairman of Committee on Budgetary Control, Mrs Theato, as well as all the Members who made a great effort to analyse the report of the Court of Auditors and to identify the key measures to be taken.
Your support is crucial for further progress towards sound Community financial management.
There is a long way to go but we will remain firm and we will not turn back.