This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Victor MacLeod:

Mr President, I should like to reiterate what Mr Bourlanges and Commissioner Liikanen have said about the way that we have had good cooperation with the Council on this occasion compared to last year for instance.
It shows what can be done when we work together.
There is a but coming up shortly.
I wish to congratulate both rapporteurs because the work they have done has helped us tremendously.
In Mr Tomlinsons case, the other institutions report has gone pretty smoothly; and in Stanislaw Tillichs case, he has gone out of his way to work with the various groups to try to get good results when we voted in committee.

I also wish to thank Jan Mulder, the rapporteur for the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, as the problems we have had in the past over the agricultural budget have been smoothed tremendously because of him.
I do not need to say too much on category  1 , because Jan has already said it.

I should like to make clear that the Socialists have tried to be consistent in their approach to this budget.
We know that a stringent, prudent budget was needed and we also know that employment had to be at the top of the agenda.
We have tried to look at the positions of Parliament and at what had and what had not got a legal base; we have looked at the wishes of the committee and at how the lines were being spent.
Taking those things into consideration, we have actually come up with a consistent policy.
At times we have done things with which I did not agree.
In agriculture, I actually led the vote against the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the tobacco sector, where we agreed to keep the money on tobacco where it is rather than take it out, because that is the way Parliament had voted in July.
That is just one example of where we have tried to go along with Parliaments wishes.

On the structural funds, the ECU  100  million that we have all now agreed for the Irish peace process is an excellent example of how the three institutions have worked together to ensure that this has been achieved without a legal base.
I should like to make one point clear to the Commission on this  I am not too sure that it is directed at DG XIX so much as DG XVI: we are not kidding, this is serious, we want to see the monies we have made available for Rechar and Retex implemented.
It is Parliaments wish from last year and we want to ensure that this money on Rechar and Retex is indeed spent.

On category  3 , as I said, our priority has been on the employment chapter.
I wish to say to the PresidentinOffice at this point: our group has put a lot of effort into getting a commitment and an agreement on this strategy.
At times it has not been easy.
We have seen some budget lines sacrificed so that we could go for this strategy; we have seen some lines take decreases and some lines disappear, where some of our colleagues were asking us to maintain them or indeed increase them.
It has not been easy to convince our colleagues of the validity of this exercise.
However, we have stuck with it, we have gone with it, and we hope that on Thursday Parliament can vote through a programme which will help create jobs in Europe.

I have to say to the PresidentinOffice  and this is where the but comes in  that our great cooperation depends on this.
If the Council cannot deliver, if we do not get a legal base and if his colleagues treat this in a flippant manner, then all hell will be let loose.
That ECU  350  million will be redistributed throughout category  3 .
We will find lines where it will go; we will ensure that it is put on those lines where it can be spent; and that will make a joke of our strategy.
A lot depends on whether the PresidentinOffice can persuade his colleagues in the Council, and I am sure that he will do that.
If it does come off, if we are successful, then once again we can show that if we have good interinstitutional cooperation, we can find the solutions that we all look for in a variety of areas.

On category  4 , the Group has been consistent in its approach to Turkey and Meda.
We do not agree with the vote in committee about putting an amount in reserve.
I make the point now that we will be voting against the amendment to put the Meda money on the line.

It is worth mentioning two lines specifically in category  4 : one is the sex tourism line, introduced by Mr Colom, which we need to do something about; the second is the CFSP for the landmines.
That should be given full support from all groups.