This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Roger Green:

Mr President, ba mhaith liomsa i dtosac cad mle filte a chuir roimh Aire Gnthai Eachtracha na hEireann chuig Parlaimint na hEorpa i maidin.

Mr President, I very much welcome the PresidentinOffice of the Council and Irelands Foreign Minister to the European Parliament this morning and I thank him very much indeed for his report on the recent summit held in Dublin.

While the summit did not result in any significant decisions, it certainly provided a valuable opportunity for the heads of state or government to discuss the state of progress of the negotiations in the Intergovernmental Conference.

In my view the draft Treaty, which is to be presented to the December summit in Dublin, must give priority to issues of widespread concern, such as employment policy and the fight against crime.

I was disappointed to note that certain Member States continue to oppose the inclusion of a chapter on employment policy in the new Treaty.
I do not agree with the British Prime Ministers view that this problem should be tackled at national level.

Over the last decade national governments in many Member States have devoted much of their energy to creating new job opportunities, in most cases without any significant degree of success.
The time has surely come for European governments to work together to try to solve this huge social, economic and political problem.

The fight against crime also demands strong cooperation between Member States if the activities of drug smugglers, money launderers and organized crime syndicates  all of whom operate on the international stage  can be effectively and comprehensively tackled by the forces of law and order in our individual countries.
Countries on the periphery, such as Ireland, with extensive sea coasts must be supported at EU level in their efforts to track and intercept drugsmuggling.

I welcome the ongoing efforts to reform the institutional structures of the Union, which I hope will simplify the decisionmaking and administrative systems of the Union before enlargement to the East.

However, it is my strong belief that it is more important to assess the impact of enlargement on existing European policies and, if necessary, to reform the actual policies rather than concentrate on administrative and institutional reform.

The addition of ten or more net beneficiary countries will have a major impact on the budget.
The arrival of new Member States with a high level of dependency on agriculture will, naturally, have major implications for the common agricultural policy.
The clear need of these countries to upgrade their industry, transport networks and environmental protection systems, will all have a major impact on the existing structural funds policy.
I was genuinely disappointed that these issues were not addressed during the Dublin Summit.

The future of the common agricultural policy and structural funds, together with the obvious need for a bigger budget in an enlarged Union, are all difficult political issues which should be tackled in parallel with the Intergovernmental Conference.

Agreement on the final contents of a new revised Treaty must be accompanied by an agreement on the future direction of the major common policies and on the framework for enlargement negotiations.

All these issues are closely interlinked, particularly in the case of existing net beneficiary countries, such as Spain, Portugal, Greece and Ireland, and those countries with significant agricultural sectors, such as France.

Following the Dublin Summit there seems to be a consensus in favour of agreeing on a revised Treaty at the Amsterdam meeting of June next year.
This is an ambitious target.
However, it is not essential for the IGC to conclude in the first half of next year: it is of far greater importance that the Member States use the IGC to confront the issues which are of general concern to our electorates and to lay the foundations for a successful enlargement of the Union to the East, even if this requires an additional six or twelve months.

In at least some Member States the electorates will be called upon to pass judgement on the results of the IGC and their verdict will depend on the extent to which the new Treaty addresses their concerns, which are much broader than mere institutional reform.