This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Lynne Bauer:

.
Mr President, this has been a very useful debate because it has focused our attention, it has provided insight and it has given me guidance, which are the essential roles of Parliament visvis the Commission.

I am a new Commissioner and do not know what has happened in the past or what precedent has been set, but I feel instinctively that the informationsharing, consultation and dialogue I have with this Parliament and with the Committee on International Trade is very strong.
It is certainly more wideranging and frequent and of greater depth than I was used to as a minister in my national parliament.
I welcome the depth and strength of those contacts and am slightly surprised by the criticism that has been expressed.
I do not know whether it is one representative of Parliament or of the Committee on International Trade as a whole, and I hope it is not.

The Commission consults Parliament on all main trade policy orientations on the basis of the Westerterp Procedure which, as we know, provides for the possibility of a debate in Parliament before the opening of negotiations on any trade agreement, as well as for information from the Council before the conclusion of any such agreement.
We do so also on the basis of the Stuttgart Declaration, which states that Parliament should be consulted on the conclusion of all agreements  even ones covered by the then Article  113   that have an important bearing on the Community.

Our commitment to this relationship is shown by the fact that we send the Committee on International Trade copies of all the policy documents that are under discussion in the Councils Article  133  Committee.
There is no legal obligation on us to do this.
We do it because it is right and because it helps underpin our relations.
No doubt we could do even better in the future, but to characterise what we do at the moment as poor or insufficient seems inaccurate.

A number of the points raised relate to legitimate concerns over the impact of these negotiations  both their direction and suspension  on developing countries.
I should make it clear that developing countries do not conform to a standard size state of development or set of interests when it comes to the negotiations.
There are different developing countries with very different interests and very different needs.
Our job is primarily to ensure two things: firstly, that all developing countries benefit and gain from these negotiations and, secondly, that the weaker, more vulnerable and lessdeveloped among them receive the greatest direct assistance, not least in terms of capacitybuilding, Aid for Trade and the putting in place of a full dutyfree and quotafree system that enables them to access rich world markets.

In other words, we operate a system of proportionality: proportionality visvis what we expect developing countries to contribute and the effort we expect of them in bringing these negotiations to a conclusion, and proportionality also in terms of what we give and how we support and underpin their development.
The countries that are in greatest need and have least to offer are quite rightly those which are, and will remain, our priority in these negotiations.

It is important to stress this because, unlike some of those who have spoken, I passionately believe that a good Doha deal can contribute to development and to fairer trade, through the way in which we operate special and differential treatment between developing countries, the way we allow carveouts for commitments to developing countries to protect and enable the development of infant industry, the way we provide for longer implementation periods for developing countries so that they can prepare for change and, in particular, the way that we grant special access to the leastdeveloped countries and attention to their capacity needs.
We shall continue to adhere to that standard, as you would expect us to do, throughout the negotiations.

What is important is to have not just access for developing countries to the markets of the developed world, but also much greater access for developing countries to the markets of other developing countries.
What is important is SouthSouth trade, especially given the extent of dutyfree and quotafree access that we in Europe already give to developing countries and particularly the ACP countries, as a result of which  75  of agricultural exports from Africa come to Europe, as do  45  of those from Latin America.
In fact, we are the most open and fairminded trading bloc in the world.
Let us remember that fact, whilst also reminding ourselves of what we can do better in the future.
The greatest and earliest gains for developing countries will come from increased trade opportunities with other developing countries.
It is therefore SouthSouth trade that we must not lose sight of when delicately and sensitively addressing the issues of tariff reductions and the muchneeded multilateralisation of Everything But Arms.

Others who have spoken have suggested that far from giving too little for and to developing countries, the European negotiating position has consisted of giving far too much, too early and showing far too much flexibility.
Well, we in Europe conceived the Doha Round.
We were primarily instrumental in launching it and we have nurtured it throughout.
After Cancn we were instrumental in putting it back on track, through the framework agreement, in  2004 , and I do not apologise for putting an end date, in Hong Kong, on the elimination of our export subsidies.
This was a commitment we had already made, assuming, of course, that we reach the end of these negotiations and that other countries act similarly in eliminating the components of their export subsidisation.
I make no apology, and am not actually primarily responsible for the future of the common agricultural policy, although I would point out that I do not as yet see a consensus emerging in favour of its abolition.

In the event of a doubtful outcome to the Doha negotiations, we will have to look very carefully at what happens to the future of export subsidies, because that is linked to another point that has been raised in this debate  i.e.
whether or not we will be more or less vulnerable to litigation at the WTO in cases brought against us on agriculture should a deal not be reached in the multilateral negotiations.
If these negotiations do not succeed, I agree that it is likely that there will be an upsurge in cases brought to the WTO, especially concerning agriculture.

We in Europe can view this possibility with relative equanimity.
We have reformed our common agricultural policy because it was right to do so for our own purposes and needs, as well as for the needs of others within the international trading system.
To the extent that we have now implemented that reform, and will continue to do so, we are protected from litigation at the WTO.
However, not all WTO members are in the same position and I certainly do not exclude the big agricultural exporters  for example Brazil and Argentina  trying the judicial road if they see that the political and negotiating one is blocked.
However, others are more vulnerable to that than we are in Europe.

Before I make one final comment about timing, let me just say this about the WTO itself.
Everybody  including the present DirectorGeneral of the WTO  agrees to varying degrees that the WTO would benefit from some institutional and procedural reform, as others have commented on during the course of this debate.
The Sutherland Report provided some interesting ideas in this regard.
However, we need to be clear in our minds on this.
The present impasse in the negotiations is not due to an institutional problem but to a political one, and no institutional improvement could break the present deadlock.
That is something which requires political will and an adjustment of attitude and policy on the part of certain WTO members.

That brings me to my last point, which relates to when these negotiations can restart.
Quite simply, we will have to wait until the midterm elections in the United States are over in November before we can entertain the idea of a serious resumption in negotiations.
I will be working to that end.