This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Christoph Bush:

Mr President, I wish to begin by welcoming Mr Lagendijks report, not only because it supports the Commissions efforts to ensure a major reduction in marine pollution, but also because it is his first as a member of the Committee on Transport and Tourism  I congratulate him on that.
It is an accomplished piece of work, if I may say so, and in return for the support and the quality of the work, I am very happy to say that the Commission can endorse many of the amendments tabled by the rapporteur.

Specifically, the Commission can accept at least the underlying principles of Amendments Nos  1 ,  3   4 ,  5 ,  12 ,  16 ,  17  and  18  (England  0 , France  2   I thought I might get that in).
There is, however, another set of amendments which the Commission must reject, mainly on the grounds that it feels that the concerns expressed have already been dealt with in other parts of the existing text.
I am sure that, on further examination, the honourable Members will understand and, I hope, accept that point.
I refer specifically to Amendments Nos  6 ,  10 ,  14  and  15 .
That leaves just  6  out of  18  amendments where there is a more substantial degree of disagreement with Parliament and I must say that, even in those cases, the divergence is not fundamental.

Amendments Nos  2  and  7  propose to extend the obligation to notify the onboard waste situation in writing to fishing vessels over  15  metres.
Mr Lagendijk referred specifically to this in the course of his speech earlier on.
The Commissions concern is that this could easily lead to an excessively bureaucratic system without bringing any substantial benefit to the environment.
We should bear in mind, of course, that fishing vessels are not excluded from the requirement to deliver their waste in ports and to contribute to the cost of facilities.
They are only exempted  I emphasise this  from the obligation to make a written notification before each port call.
The reason for that is simply that most fishing vessels, obviously, have one or more standard ports where they normally land their catches.
The prior notification proposal exists in order to allow the port to make the necessary arrangements for receiving waste from ships.
In the case of fishing vessels, the port will generally be very familiar with the needs of the vessels, even without a written notification.

We also believe that the length limit of  15  metres, like any other limit, is bound to be somewhat arbitrary and therefore difficult to justify.
For those reasons  we hope that the House will accept practical reasons  we cannot accept Amendment No  13  either.
Having said that, however, I share Parliaments concern that if very big fish factory vessels were to be excluded from the statutory obligation, that would be very retrograde.
I should like to reassure the House that those vessels are definitely subject to the notification and control obligations, since fish factory ships, which are not engaged in catching fish, are not considered to be fishing vessels under the terms of this proposed directive.

The most controversial amendment, as indeed Mr Lagendijk said, is probably No  8  on the charging system for the delivery of shipgenerated waste.
Here the objectives of Parliament and the Commission are absolutely the same: all of us want to achieve a charging system in which ships are not given incentives to discharge waste at sea.
However, we differ about methods of securing that objective.
The Commissions proposal seeks to strike a balance between the need to make the best possible progress in encouraging waste delivery to ports and the plain political reality of taking into account the very different views of Member States on this issue.
The end result of both Parliaments and the Commissions approach is that fees cannot only be based on actual delivery.
Neither of us thinks that ships which do not deliver waste should be free from the fees associated with waste management.
Our divergence, therefore, arises only from the fact that the Commissions proposal preserves a greater flexibility for the Member States in deciding the extent to which the socalled nospecialfee system will be applied.

In addition, we should bear in mind that ports, marinas and fishing ports in Member States are obviously very different, not just between but also within Member States.
As I said, however, the fundamental objective of sharing the cost between users and nonusers is crucial if we want to encourage the delivery in ports of waste and reduce and, indeed, prevent the pollution of the sea.

Amendment No  9  is unacceptable because the Commission can adequately deal with competition matters under the powers it already has under the Treaty.
The proposed amendment would have the effect of reducing those necessary powers merely to the possibility of making a proposal, and that, clearly, would not be in order.
Again, I hope, on reflection, that amendment may be withdrawn.

Finally, we cannot accept Amendment No  11 , which relates to the number of spotcheck inspections to be carried out for control purposes.
The Commission considers that a certain flexibility is needed, partly because of the potential future inclusion of the waste control regime in the existing port state control directive, which obviously would have exactly the effect anticipated correctly by Mr Jarzembowski.
Our feelings arise partly from the fact that the main elements for enhancing compliance with this directive are not only set down in the control part of the directive.
The Commission, therefore, considers that a slightly less systematic spotcheck system is adequate for the purposes of the directive and achieving the purposes of combating the pollution of the sea, at least as far as checks outside the port state control regime are concerned.
Clearly, as Mr Jarzembowski said and as other Members have noted, in the course of the normal port state control check, it would be extraordinary if the inspector taking his  25   quota, as it were, were not to pay attention to the wastedisposal situation on board the craft.
One could readily anticipate that will be undertaken  it is a relatively simple check.

One or two questions were raised by the honourable Members, to which I should like specifically to respond very briefly.
Mr Sindal raised the question of wrecks in international waters.
We recall in this House that he has fastidiously pursued the questions raised by the disastrous wreck of the Pallas in international waters.
Currently, as the House and Mr Sindal know, just vessels are the responsibility of the flag state but we are all aware of the deficiencies of that system, and coastal states may get involved in order to protect their own environment.
Clearly there is something to be desired in respect of using those powers as well.
The House may be glad to know that the Commission is supporting discussions in the International Maritime Organisation about placing the mandatory responsibility for safeguarding against pollution and other effects of wrecks on the vessel owner.
In my view, that could be a very real breakthrough in our efforts to achieve quality shipping in all waters, particularly in European waters.
I hope that progress can be achieved without great delay in the IMO.
Naturally we would prefer the standards to be global, if that is at all possible, and then followed up with a legal regime in our own maritime area.
I hope we can embark upon that without great delay when the discussions are completed in the IMO.

Further, Mr Sindal also asked about VAT on waste disposal fees.
That is a crucial question which is probably why discussions on the matter are still continuing.
However, in the course of the further development of this legislation, I will be in a position to give a more specific response.

Mr Jarzembowskis point, which is well taken, that it is essential that the fees levied do not result in the distortion of competition between ports, because their rivalry is, to say the least, very interesting.
After I retire I propose to write a novel about this to do them real justice  maybe a fairy tale, who knows!
There will be differences in the level of the charges which arise mainly because of the relative efficiency or inefficiency of the system.
If a port, because of its efficiency in handling waste disposal, is able to charge smaller fees, well the very best of luck to that port.
What we are then seeing is effective competition and not a distortion of competition, as I am sure Mr Jarzembowski will agree.

I conclude by expressing my gratitude to the Committee on Transport and Tourism and specifically to the rapporteur, Mr Lagendijk, for the expeditious work and the excellent report on this detailed and important proposal.