This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Annette Corless:

Member of the Commission.
 Mr President, the High Representative and VicePresident of the Commission, Cathy Ashton, asked me to make the following remarks.

Allow me to thank you for this very timely invitation to address you on Ukraine, which is a key partner for the European Union.

As you will be aware, a second round of presidential elections took place on Sunday in Ukraine.
This was an important event, not just for the country itself, but for the wider region as a whole.
It is important because a democratic Ukraine will serve as an important example to its neighbours.

We welcome the positive assessment made by the OSCEODIHRled International Election Observation Mission that the elections were conducted in accordance with international standards and that there has been further progress in Ukraines already good electoral trackrecord since  2004 .

The statement issued by the High Representative on Monday expressed this sentiment.
It also congratulated the people of Ukraine for their continued commitment to the democratic process.
The high turnout on both election days was particularly encouraging.

It is clear that Ukraines democracy is continuing its process of consolidation.
The population of the country goes to the polls, makes its choice freely, and expects to be heard.
This is a significant achievement.
Most importantly, it demonstrates Ukraines attachment to European values.

Elections have winners and losers.
It is the electorate who decides.
As we meet here today in Strasbourg, official election results have not yet been certified by the Central Election Commission.

Preliminary election results show a very small gap between the two contestants.
We have already heard about possible challenges to the results in the courts.
Some local court cases have already been initiated.

It is logical and legitimate that any possible problems are investigated.
At the same time, it is of utmost importance that the electoral process as a whole continues in a smooth manner, demonstrating both the resilience and depth of Ukraines democratic maturity and the candidates own shared commitment to the countrys development.

Every election is a demonstration of popular will.
It is also an opportunity for a new start.
It is now vital for Ukraine to move forward.
The success of the electoral process in Ukraine  given Ukraines geographical and strategic importance  matters to the EU, and to Europe as a whole.

In the past years, we have seen political instability, characterised by competition between the President and Prime Minister, exacerbated by a lack of clarity in the Constitution.
Ukraine has consistently held good elections, and has a vibrant civil society and free media.
Regrettably, however, the overall reform process  which is vital for Ukraine  has significantly slowed.
Much more should have been done in the past years.

Preelection politics also got in the way of the implementation of the IMF standby arrangement, with Ukraine failing to meet required conditions.
The weakness of Ukraines constitutional framework has also contributed to this.

I am convinced that I speak for all of us in saying that we look to the new leadership in Ukraine to give new impetus to its reform efforts.
As a first priority, in order to address the effects of the global financial crisis and ensure future economic stability, Ukraine needs to get back on track with the IMF programme, without delay.
This is also a precondition for the disbursement of possible EU macrofinancial assistance.

In the weeks and months to come, we will see a new administration being formed in Kiev.
The EUs message to Ukraines leadership is consistent and clear: now is the time to act.
We expect to see concrete steps forward.
Reform is essential for Ukraines own longterm prosperity and security.
It is in Ukraines own interest  not just to please the international community.
This message was also already conveyed at the EUUkraine Summit of  4  December  2009 .

Action is needed at many levels.
On the economic front, Ukraine needs to take urgent action to tackle corruption and to improve the business and investment climate.
This includes efforts to strengthen the independence of the judiciary, to open up the economy and to ensure fair and transparent competition  for example, by the adoption of a public procurement law in line with international standards and the European Union acquis.

At the same time, essential sectoral reforms in areas such as energy  in particular the gas sector  transport and the environment need to be undertaken and implemented.
We have also consistently encouraged Ukraine to revisit constitutional reform, to bring stability and put in place functioning ground rules for political life.
A constitution needs to stand the test of time, and its reform should not be tied to shortterm political considerations.
It is up to Ukraine to choose the model it wants to adopt.
However, it should ensure that an effective system of checks and balances is in place which avoids the political paralysis that Ukraine has experienced in the past.
The help and advice of the Venice Commission will be important in ensuring that this is done in a manner corresponding to European standards, availing of the best experience available.

Over and above the first reform priorities, Ukraine needs to continue the extensive task of ensuring regulatory approximation with European Union standards.
This is a prerequisite to ensure that Ukraine can enjoy the full benefits of the new and ambitious EUUkraine association agreement which we are currently negotiating with Ukraine  including a deep and comprehensive free trade area,

It is our task to encourage Ukraine on the way forward and to support Kievs own leadership in a process of farreaching reforms and modernisation.
We have many tools to do so.
Through the European neighbourhood policy, we have the means to support Ukraines own reform efforts.
Already today, ongoing and planned technical and financial cooperation with Ukraine is in the region of EUR  435  million, without counting possible macrofinancial assistance.
The Eastern Partnership has brought additional tools.
The comprehensive institutionbuilding programme envisaged by the Eastern Partnership is a case in point, as it specifically targets institutions within the Ukrainian Government which need strengthening in order to deliver on reform.

More generally, in negotiations with Ukraine on a new ambitious EUUkraine association agreement, we have set out our goals clearly: political association and economic integration between the European Union and Ukraine.
This is a very significant undertaking, including the establishment of a deep and comprehensive free trade area involving extensive regulatory approximation to the European Union acquis.

But our offer to Ukraine is not a oneway street.
The pace at which Ukraine and the EU come closer together in the future depends on the quality and depth of Ukraines own reform efforts.
We look forward to working with Ukraines new leadership to achieve our common goals.

We have been in contact today through our cabinets with the High Representative and my colleague in the Commission, and let me summarise the three following messages: firstly, we both agreed that these elections testified the vibrancy of democracy in Ukraine; secondly, we are committed to deepening the relationship with Ukraine and supporting it in implementing its reform agenda; and, thirdly, we look forward to starting a constructive cooperation with the Presidentelect as soon as official results are announced.