This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Philip Finlayson:

Member of the Commission.
 Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to stress that I found  and I am also speaking on behalf of Benita FerreroWaldner, of course  our exchanges today to be very frank and extremely useful.
I wish to thank you for a constructive and forwardlooking debate.

The EU is, in principle, ready to work closely with Minsk and support urgently needed political and economic reforms.
Should there be significant steps from the Belarusian leadership in terms of democratisation, the EU would be prepared to see Belarus as a full member of the Eastern Partnership.
In the meantime, the EU is, and will be, urging Belarus to take further irreversible steps towards democratic standards, without which our relationship cannot develop to its full potential.
I sincerely hope that in  2010 , we will be in a position to engage gradually and intelligently with Belarus and offer the Belarusian people a vision and tangible benefits of a close relationship with the EU.

The EU expects Belarus to take a series of accompanying measures in the area of democratic reforms, with a view to coming closer to the EU and together help expand the area of peace, stability and prosperity involving all six Eastern Partnership countries, as well as Russia, the EUs strategic partner.

There are five measures we expect Belarus to take resolutely and irreversibly.

Firstly, to ensure there is no backtracking on political prisoners and politically motivated criminal prosecution.
Secondly, carry out a thorough reform of the electoral legislation in line with OSCEODIHR recommendations.
Thirdly, embark upon the liberalisation of the media environment, uphold freedom of speech and of assembly.
Fourthly, improve through regulatory and legislative measures working conditions for NGOs.
Fifthly, abolish or declare a moratorium on the death penalty.

A significant move in showing Belarus commitment to shared values would be the immediate introduction of a moratorium on the death penalty and its subsequent abolition as a crucial step forward on its path to Council of Europe membership.
In its November conclusions, the Council of the EU urged Belarus to introduce a moratorium on the death penalty.
Moreover, the Commission has carried out communication actions in the wake of the  10 th International Day against the Death Penalty.

What could the EU do for Belarus?
What is on offer?
The Commission believes that the most productive approach to Belarus will be one based on pragmatism.
Progressive EU engagement with Belarus needs to reflect positive steps by Belarus itself, but we also need to show flexibility.
The November  2009  conclusions of the General Affairs and External Relations Council (GAERC) allow the EU to offer incentives to Belarus for steps we want to see, while remaining true to our principles.
This is what I mean by pragmatism.

Our message to Belarus is clear.
First, the EU is ready to work closely with Minsk and support its political and economic development and, should there be significant positive steps from the Belarusian leadership, we would be prepared to see Belarus as a full member of the Eastern Partnership.
This would entail the development of our relationship through the bilateral track of the EAP, the launching of a thorough political and economic dialogue, as well as enhanced sectoral cooperation.

In the meantime, Belarus was invited in May  2009  to join the multilateral dimension of the EAP.
It is participating constructively at deputy minister level in the four multilateral forums  democracy and governance, economic integration, energy security and peopletopeople contacts.

Secondly, we expect Belarus to take further irreversible steps towards democratic standards, without which our relationship cannot develop to its full potential.

Thirdly, the absence of a PCA is not only a loss to Belarus; it deprives us of a legal basis for structures like a formal human rights dialogue and addressing trade or energy transit issues.
In the Commission, we continue to believe that the ratification of the PCA will be a useful step forward, but clearly we will continue to use this as an incentive lever to encourage further moves on the Belarusian side.

Fourthly, and lastly, the Commission has started working on the implementation of the November  2009  GAERC conclusions, and will come back to the Council of EU Ministers with proposals as soon as possible.