This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Nancy Jones:

Madam President, in its proposal to extend and deepen the base of energy taxation the Commission will have the support of Parliament.
The energy tax directive is timely in terms of our commitments to reduce global warming and is desirable as a means of promoting greater energy efficiency and encouraging a lower energy intensity per unit of output; furthermore, it is necessary to explore new tax bases if we are ever to tackle successfully the structural difficulty in too many of our States of lowering nonwage labour costs in societies suffering unacceptably high rates of unemployment.

We in Parliament will say yes to new taxes but no to more taxes.
Regrettably Parliament cannot insist in law on fiscal neutrality, but it does so as a matter of political conviction.
Member States and the Council will betray the wider public purpose of this proposal if they fail to use the extra revenue from energy tax to offset excessive nonwage, taxdriven labour costs.
We insist on such a tradeoff because, to reiterate the point, this Parliament wants new tax but not more tax.

The Commission proposes an extension of the excise tax regime on hydrocarbons to a much more comprehensive tax base, including sectors that have heretofore been excluded in some or all of the Member States  sectors such as coal, gas, electricity and homeheating oil.
Parliament supports this as commendable, yet no sooner is this tax base definition established in the Commission proposal, than, through a complex series of total or partial exemptions, total or partial refunds, which variously are mandatory or optional, the Commission proposes a form of tax governance based more on exceptions than on rules.
This, in our view, is a bad legislative proposal because it is too complex.
It lacks the characteristics of good tax law, which should be simple to understand, easy to collect, predictable in its statutory implications and difficult to evade.

I should say that some colleagues confuse this proposal with the CO 2  tax.
This is not a CO 2  tax directive.
The Commission services, and ultimately the College of Commissioners, have submitted to Parliament a proposal which, we believe, reflects too many of the priorities of the lobbyists with which they have dealt and too little concern for the wider public interest.

In first studying the proposal, I recalled the rather unkind remark about a recent presidency in the United States, which likened the behaviour of the President to a cushion which, it was reported, always bore the marks of the last arse to sit on it.
In some respects, the exceptionalism in this document appears to me to reflect that kind of logic.
This is the kind of legislative proposal that has to stop.
My report proposes radical surgery to remove the glut of exemptions but still proposes the retention of green exceptions.

On tax deepening, we believe the Commission has opted for an unnecessarily complex formula.
We propose starting with the Commissions Year  2000  tax rate proposals and then applying an accelerator formula, subject to fiveyear review, but which would stay in place pending the outcome of the review.
It has the advantage of clarity and certainty and avoids the endless institutional complications of the alternative proposed to us.

There remains the outstanding difficulty about firms and sectors whose costs may dramatically increase to the point where their competitive position could be destroyed.
We do not ignore this issue: we propose a form of constrained subsidiarity, where such firms or sectors can seek relief provided there are extenuating circumstances, but where they must pass a wider EU test for objectivity so that they do not violate the rules of fair competition or the rules related to state aids.

I also propose an additional amendment at this stage that sectors where this is systematic should potentially be subject to a Commissionapproved block exemption or refund.

In summary, the European Parliament will support new energy and ecotaxes, but does not support more taxes.
We demand fiscal neutrality of the states.
We insist on lowering labour taxes as the counterpart of this tax.
We want a simpler and more certain taxbased definition than that proposed by the Commission.
We want a more predictable basedeepening formula for determining the evolution of tax rates.
We want competitive handicap to be addressed where it is a genuine problem but not to be used as an excuse for going soft on necessary change.
I commend the report to the House.