This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Sebastian Reid:

On behalf of the Green Group, I welcome this own initiative report on prison conditions in the EU and the proposed improvements and alternative penalties.

Concern has been growing throughout the EU about the unsatisfactory conditions in many EU prisons, where offenders are serving sentences for offences which are judged differently in different countries.

I welcome the fact that Member States are being called on to fully apply the Council of Europes rules in relation to prisons.
The deprivation of freedom of movement should not mean deprivation of all fundamental freedoms  freedom of thought and opinion and freedom of political and religious beliefs, as well as civil rights must be respected.

I also welcome the series of measures designed to improve prison conditions and facilitate subsequent reintegration into society.
The special account given to the specific needs of women prisoners is very important.
So too are the recommendations to protect the social and family environment, medical services, including special services for addicts, and more humane laws on penalties for young offenders.

Exploring the concept of amnesties, alternative penalties and highlighting the importance of training of prison staff and social workers is the direction we should be aiming for in regard to future policy.

It is also very important that we look at the problem of criminalising drug addicts.
This is not going to solve the problem, in fact it ignores the problems of drug addicts who are only harming themselves and contributes to the overcrowding in prisons.
Adopting a policy of rehabilitation for addicts and help to reintegrate into society would be the more logical approach.

As regards Irish prisons, the Irish Penal Reform Trust has made many useful and constructive proposals to the Irish Government and has highlighted some of the serious problems with the Irish prison system.

The Trust has a number of concerns about the treatment of Irish prisoners.
For example:

 40   of prisoners have no access to incell sanitation.
They must use a chamber pot, sometimes in a shared cell, and slop out each morning. Some prisons are greatly overcrowded.
On  15  July  1998  Cork held  177   of its design capacity ( 266  inmates in a prison built for  150 ). In closed institutions the facilities for recreation are extremely limited. Medical treatment for prisoners has been strongly criticised by individual inmates, visiting committees and the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture. Psychiatric and psychological services are limited and widely spread.
This leads to excessive use of padded cells (resorted to  500  times in Mountjoy prison in  1997 ). There is little independent monitoring of prison conditions.
No inspector of prisons and visiting committees are uncritical and lack credibility. It is difficult for prisoners to maintain family ties.
Contact visits are rarely allowed and correspondence is censored. Prison officers initial training is brief and does not devote sufficient time to human rights issues. Prison Governors have no control over their budgets or staff rosters.
They are not allowed to govern.In combination the above limitations can create an environment where human rights are not taken seriously.
This means that poor treatment is unchallenged and even becomes acceptable.
In this way low standards become the norm.

Potential ill treatment rarely comes to light because of the culture of secrecy which characterises the Department of Justice.

There is a perception in Ireland that the poor are treated differently by the courts.
Studies of the prison population show a clear preponderance of uneducated, unemployed, drugaddicted, young men.
There is clear evidence to show that the poorest defendants are more likely to be imprisoned than fined, and even if fined they may end up in prison in default.
Also some courts allow a contribution to the poor box as an alternative sentence.
This clearly favours the wealthy.

Sentencing practice in Ireland is unclear.
If justice is to be done then patterns of sentencing must be analysed and areas of discrimination eliminated.
There is no tradition of criminal justice research in Ireland which means that policies are often based on intuition and expediency and not on facts and principles.

Another problem is that remand prisoners are not held apart from those who have been convicted and sentenced.
As they must be available for the courts, they are held in committal prisons where conditions are cramped and unsanitary.
These people experience the worst elements of the Irish penal system and this is unacceptable in view of their legal status as innocent citizens.

In  1999  a new purposebuilt remand prison will open at Cloverhill.
This should be an opportunity to create an environment for remand prisoners which recognises their special needs.
However, the design quality of this institution leaves a lot to be desired.
Despite the fact that international guidelines suggest single cell occupancy as the norm, overcrowding will be a feature of this new prison as soon as it opens.
Inmates will be held in triple cells.
These are small and cramped, measuring only  10 . 7  m.

The Irish situation is not unique and it is clear that similar problems exist in many other EU Member States.