This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Nancy Reid:

Mr President,  Die Politik ist keine exakte Wissenschaft  .
Please forgive my German accent, but I would not dare quote Bismarck in English.
If politics were an exact science, the United States of Europe would already exist as the logical culmination of the aims of the Founding Fathers of the European Union, providing security and prosperity for its citizens and exercising a benign but powerful influence on the world stage.
But, regrettably, politics is not exact and we are here today discussing a measure which is more practical than ideal.

The proposals of the Irish presidency under the title Outline for a draft revision of the Treaties are the distillation of views and opinions gathered from a myriad of discussions, debate and seminars at political and official level with academics, NGOs and social partners, a process that began under the Italian presidency and gathered momentum during the last six months.
The document should therefore command a consensus if it is an accurate reflection of these views.
In theory, nobody should be against it but I suspect there is much disparity in some areas, especially under the third pillar.
Therefore, consensus may be difficult to achieve.

The principle of consensus, however, should never mean surrender and I commend the presidency for pushing for real progress in such areas as Treaty status for the fight for employment and growth, the fight against drugtrafficking, with extension of the remit and powers of Europol, measures to combat serious crime, extension of the CFSP, simplification of decisionmarking and transparency, fundamental rights, the sustainable environment and freedom to travel.

The first priority  the plight of the unemployed  is also our first priority.
The European Council must again address this issue in Dublin.
Whole communities in our countries are being destroyed because of widespread unemployment.
A wholehearted response is required.
I believe that Dublin should provide us with a separate and comprehensive statement of the European Council strategy to strengthen the fight for growth and employment.

Politicians can be broadly divided into pragmatists and idealists.
The pragmatists are those who know what can be attained and have to endure the frustration when this is less than they would like.
The Irish presidency and members of governments generally find themselves in this category.

I have no doubt that the Irish presidency is only too well aware that its draft document is embarrassingly weak on the vexed question of the veto and qualified majority voting.
I know it is in full sympathy with the views of this Parliament but it sees the draft document as a realistic or pragmatic acknowledgement of what is politically attainable at this stage.

When to debate a sensitive topic  when to make it an issue  is always a fine judgement for the pragmatic politician but for politicians who can afford the luxury of being idealists  and many in this Parliament are in this category  there are no such inhibitions.
Our job is always to pursue the unattainable goal, dragging our pragmatic colleagues with us as far as possible towards this goal.
That is why we must call for the end of the veto.
The veto is a roadblock on our route to Union.
If it is not removed our great movement will come to a halt because any one Member State can say: thus far and no further.
If this happens Europe will stagnate and eventually fall apart as Member States pursue their own individual aspirations, no longer having a common goal.

We are approaching  if we are not already there  the watershed of the history of the Union.
Those who do not believe in the federal Union foreseen by our Founding Fathers must consider whether they are entitled to bring this movement to a halt and ultimate collapse or whether they themselves should go.
It is perhaps a pity that this draft of the Irish presidency does not pose this question for it needs to be faced and, I would say, sooner rather than later.
I believe, therefore, with the European Parliament, that the veto should go, and should go quickly.

The democratic deficit must also be ended.
We want to see an extension of codecision and a more democratic and effective third pillar.

I also endorse the use of qualified majority voting to achieve an effective common foreign and security policy, and the incorporation of the WEU under the European pillar.
To those who would say that this is an unreasonable approach  and there will be some  let me quote the wisdom of a fellow Irishman, George Bernard Shaw.
The reasonable man adapts himself to the world: the unreasonable one persists in trying to adapt the world to himself.
Therefore all progress depends on the unreasonable man.
I would like to think that this Parliament is firmly on the side of the unreasonable man.

Let me conclude by warmly thanking the Irish presidency for the courtesy it has extended to the Groups of this Parliament and to Parliament itself and for taking on board the concerns of this Parliament.
I sincerely wish it all success in Dublin and in its concluding days.