This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Lynne McNabb:

rapporteur.
 Madam President, at the beginning of this year a harsh shiver went through the homes of many people in Western Europe as the Russian firm Gazprom turned off the supplies to Ukraine.
The effects of that were felt throughout the European Union.
A harsh shiver went down the spine of many politicians as we realised that in future, if we were to continue on our current trajectory, over  80  of our gas was likely to come from outside the EU.
There are real securityofsupply issues that need to be addressed very quickly.

On top of this, there is an increasing awareness of the climate change agenda.
It is affecting our planet more quickly and in more dramatic ways than were hitherto imagined.
If we are to stem the tide of the effects that humans are having on the environment, we surely have to start by making radical changes in the way we use and produce energy.

I would like to think that the report we are voting on today will be an adequate response to those challenges.
The Commission has set out its stall on the scale of the problem.
We hope we have responded constructively to some of the tough choices that need to be made.

There has been no doubt that this is an opportunity for the EU to prove itself to the citizens of Europe.
This is one of the greatest contributions that Parliament has made to this debate, putting citizens and consumers right back into the centre of the energy debate.
If we are to take on these challenges the consumer has to be involved and we have to recognise that energy poverty is a real issue for millions of our citizens.
Energy efficiency is surely the most costeffective way of meeting some of the energy challenges we face, and the Commission has come up with a very comprehensive action plan on energy consumption and energy efficiency.
It is imperative that we try to make the European Union the most energyefficient economy in the world by  2020 .

This is a great example of a situation where we already have reams of legislation in place and Member States are ignoring the laws that they have signed up to.
We have to reach a stage where we cut our energy consumption by  20 .
Implementation on this is absolutely crucial and I would like to ask you, Commissioner, what further steps we can take.
You suggested that we are going to initiate more infringement proceedings  but can we do more to name and shame Member States that are not implementing the laws that they have signed up to?

For too long, many Member States have been more concerned about getting the best deal for their national energy champions than helping or providing benefits for the consumer.
Why is it that in the UK last year  19  of the public switched energy companies, while in France the figure was less than  2 ?
Is it because all the citizens in France and in Germany are happy with their energy suppliers?
I doubt it.
I suggest that it is because it is extremely difficult for many companies to access these markets because of some companies inbuilt vested interests in keeping others out.
That is why we have to do something very serious in opening up and unbundling the energy networks.
When you arrive in the UK on the Eurostar, the first sign you see is a huge sign which says that lectricit de France is giving power to millions of Londoners.
I dream of the day when I can get off the train in Paris and read a sign that says: Centrica  still not in Russian hands  providing power to millions of Parisians.
I am afraid that day is a long way off.

Security of supply and sustainability have to go handinhand.
We have to use mechanisms such as the emissions trading scheme to drive the economy.
Energy mix is up to Member States, but let us be sensible and acknowledge that the energy mix in one country will affect others, and that is why we need targets on cutting CO 2  emissions by  30  by  2020 .
We are insistent on binding sectoral targets of  25  in renewable energies.
That means no less than a revolution in the way that many Member States produce their energy.
We spend pitiful amounts on research and development and we have to work towards a truly common European energy policy in external affairs.

I would like to thank the other political parties, in particular Mr Reul, Mrs Ek, Mr Turmes and Mr Seppnen for their contributions and their support in this debate.
I hope, Commissioner, you will take on some of our ideas and we look forward to receiving your ideas on the strategic energy review in the new year.