This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Nancy MacLeod:

Mr President, the last time that Britain held the presidency of the European Union was in the second half of  1992 .
Then the British Presidency was characterized by drift and vacillation, by lack of purpose and absence of vision.
This time it will be different, very different.
The British Labour Government has a clear, well thoughtout agenda, as we have heard this morning, an agenda which is designed to make the essential link to the peoples concerns and aspirations and European cooperation.
Europe should not be about remote bureaucracy and abstract theories.
Europe should be about joint approaches to common problems.
It is about tackling the issues which affect the lives of ordinary people in all the Member States.
It is because the British Government recognises this that the British Presidency is, I believe, so determined to pursue the priorities which have been outlined.

Quite rightly, at the top of the presidencys agenda is to reach agreement on which countries will qualify for Stage Three of economic and monetary union.
A successful start of the euro is in everybodys best interests.
Also at the top of the agenda is job creation and if there is any issue weighing heavy on the people of Europe it is surely the fact that there are over  18  million people unemployed throughout the Union.
There can never be a true European Union when we have such high levels of unemployment.
Unemployment causes personal misery, it undermines social cohesion, it eats at Europes very soul.
What we have to do is to take forward the employment guidelines agreed at the Luxembourg Job Summit so that we have concrete action plans.
Plans which will turn good words into practical deeds; encouraging entrepreneurship, promoting education, training and lifelong learning, improving employability, increasing equal opportunities.
This is what is needed and I am sure that this is what the British Presidency will promote with vigour and with determination.

If Europe it to succeed in the global economy, we cannot be complacent or conservative.
To win in the world we have to make the process of change a way of life.
To be competitive we have to be innovative and to be innovative we have to be radical and forwardlooking.
This means that we have to create a more effective single market, a market which, for example, embraces telecommunications and the energy sector.
It means ending unfair state aids.
It means encouraging small businesses and attacking red tape and it means ensuring that research and development is at the very cutting edge of our economic advance.

Another priority for the presidency is to launch the process of enlarging the European Union.
Let us be clear that this is of tremendous importance to all the people of Europe.
Enlargement will bring real benefits to both the existing Member States and the aspiring members.
It will bring mutual economic rewards and deliver greater security and stability.
But, as we all know, for enlargement to work, the European Union itself has to change.
Agenda  2000  is a good startingpoint.
Now we have to have a serious debate about how we can develop a new regional policy to meet the needs of the future, and how of course we are going to reform the common agricultural policy.
If modernisation is needed anywhere it is here.

The emphasis which the presidency will place on enlargement is, I believe, indicative of how the presidency wants the European Union to look beyond its current borders.
In a similar vein the presidency should be congratulated on its determination to improve the Unions common foreign and security policy, the emphasis which it is placing on agreeing an new negotiating mandate for the Lom convention, and on its desire to give human rights the attention which is required.

The British Presidency has indeed set itself an ambitious agenda.
It includes a wide range of issues, issues about which people are desperately concerned.
In my experience the international menace of the drugs trade is undoubtedly one of those issues of greatest concern to the people of Europe and I for one warmly welcome your commitment, Foreign Secretary, to take up this fight in earnest.
It is indeed heartening to hear also your commitment this morning to work with the European Parliament.
I can assure you that the European Parliament is more than happy to work with you.
Partnership, consensus, cooperation are our joint words, we share a common approach to Europes development.

Finally, I wonder if I could conclude with a personal note.
At the end of the presidency the European Summit will be held in my constituency, in Cardiff, the capital city of Wales.
I am delighted that this will be the case and I am confident that at the end the presidency we will see a Europe which is more confident, a Europe which is more dynamic, a Europe which is more relevant and a Europe which once again has the full support of our people.
Let us all work together to ensure that the Cardiff Summit is the peoples summit.