This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Nancy Bauer:

Member of the Commission.
Madam President, the Commission is fully aware of the important role that hydrogen and fuel cells can play in the successful transition to a more sustainable energy system.
It recognises that a key issue is the development and deployment of processes that can supply the required quantities of hydrogen in a way that leads to a net reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and which is also environmentally sustainable.

Initially, the bulk of hydrogen is expected to come from fossil fuels, firstly without, and then, in the medium term, with carbon capture and sequestration.
The longterm goal is to produce hydrogen from carbonfree and carbonlean energy sources.
Under the fifth and sixth framework programmes, projects have investigated the potential of hydrogen as an energy carrier at the global level, as well as looking at many different options for producing and using hydrogen, while analysing the economic, social and environmental opinions for different pathways.
Under FP  6 , EC funding for hydrogen and fuel cell research and demonstration exceeds EUR  300  million.
Around  20  of the activity concerns hydrogen production covering shortterm pathways, such as advanced electrolysers, as well as longterm technologies, such as biological and photoelectrochemical processes.
Technical research is complemented by socioeconomic studies and demonstration.

Allow me to give you some practical examples.
Under the fifth framework programme, the Commission supported the CUTE and ECTOS programme, which demonstrated  30  hydrogen fuel cell buses and hydrogen infrastructure in ten European cities and contributed to establishing its credibility as an alternative to petrol and diesel.
Under FP 6 , these activities have further expanded into a demonstration of a fleet of  200  hydrogenfuelled vehicles, including buses, cars and small specialist vehicles, as part of the Hydrogen for Transport initiative.

A further example of a project financed under the sixth framework programme, and whose results were just recently published, is the hydrogen internal combustion engine project.
This is a new type of hydrogen technology that will lead to new and more efficient engines.
The project has tested ways to make hydrogenfuelled engines that are as efficient as current diesel engines, yet not polluting and with little or no tradeoff in terms of engine size and power.
These hydrogenfuelled engines offer clear advantages over current generation engines and promise to compete with other proposed systems in terms of performance as well as cost.
Under this project, innovative fuel injection concepts for engines for passenger cars, as well as for trucks and buses, were developed.

Finally, let me give you another example, worth mentioning because it was awarded the Descartes prize for collaborative scientific research just last week.
It is the Hydrosol project, an innovative solar thermochemical reactor for the production of hydrogen from watersplitting, resembling the familiar catalytic converter of automobiles.
The integration of solar energy with systems capable of splitting water will have an immense impact on energy economics worldwide, as it is a promising route for providing affordable renewable solar hydrogen with virtually zero CO 2  emissions.

There are of course many more such examples and if the honourable Member wishes, I can provide her with a list of projects.
Under the current seventh framework programme, which was launched just recently, research and technological development and demonstration in the field of hydrogen and fuel cells will benefit from very extensive stakeholder consultation undertaken through the European Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Technology Platform.
Established in the year  2004 , this industryled technology platform has provided the strategic direction which the sector needs in order to bring these technologies to the point of commercial readiness.

Annex  4  to the Council decision on specific programme cooperation lists a hydrogen and fuel cells initiative as one of the possible joint technology initiatives that may be established either on the basis of Article  171  of the Treaty  this may include the creation of joint undertakings  or on the basis of a modification of the specific programme in accordance with Article  166  of the Treaty.
The JTI, envisaged as a long term publicprivate partnership, will define and execute a targetoriented European programme of industrial research, technological development and demonstration designed to deliver robust hydrogen and fuel cell technologies developed to the point of commercial takeoff.
It is expected that one of the JTI targets will be to supply  10  to  20  of the hydrogen demand for energy applications with carbonlean or carbonfree production technologies by  2015 .
The precise scope and targets will be defined once this joint technology initiative is adopted.

In the meantime, the first calls for proposals for FP 7  were launched on  22  December and the expiry date is the end of April.
The energy theme includes a number of topics related to innovative materials for specific hydrogen production pathways.

I have taken longer than I intended, but I wanted to give you a broad outline of the programmes or initiatives which are in place.