This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Lynne Corless:

PresidentinOffice of the Council.
 Madam President, I am grateful for this opportunity to contribute to todays discussion on the issue of the Barcelona Process: Union for the Mediterranean.
I know that Parliament follows this with particular interest.
Pasqualina Napoletano is to be commended in particular.
As a result, the motion for a resolution on which you will be voting later constitutes a valuable contribution to our work together.

The Paris Summit last July created the Union for the Mediterranean and established a partnership built on the existing Barcelona Process.
The current rotating presidency gives priority to strengthening this partnership.
Even though the Lisbon Treaty has not yet come into force, I can assure you that, in the spirit of coownership, we are placing a particular focus on the development of this initiative and, in particular, the regional projects.
These are important.
They offer concrete signs to the citizens of the region that the partnership works in their interest.

The Union for the Mediterranean is not the only mechanism for cooperation.
The bilateral dimension continues under the European neighbourhood policy, and is complemented in some cases by the preaccession framework  as well as, in the case of Mauritania, the ACP framework.

These approaches together encourage reform within individual countries, and reinforce regional cooperation.
The neighbourhood policy, of course, also has an important eastern dimension, and we very much welcome the parallel development of this policy.

The Paris Summit agreed to take work forward in four key areas: depollution of the Mediterranean; maritime and land highways; civil protection; and the development of alternative energies through, for example, the Mediterranean Solar Plan.

There is also particular focus on higher education and research, as well as on support for business through the Mediterranean Business Development Initiative.
The technical aspects of project proposals put forward in this area will be handled by the secretariat to be established in Barcelona, as was agreed in Marseilles last year.

In addition to these specific project areas, the ministerial conferences of the Union for the Mediterranean will address a number of global challenges that affect us all.
These include the search for peace and security in the region, the social and geopolitical impact of the economic crisis, environmental concerns, the management of migratory flows, and the role of women in our respective societies.

There are two particular areas of cooperation which I know are important to this Parliament and which we also fully support.
The first is interparliamentary cooperation through the creation of the EuroMediterranean Parliamentary Assembly and its committees.
This initiative is key to developing a strong parliamentary dimension to the Union for the Mediterranean.
It will, as is pointed out in your resolution, serve to reinforce its democratic legitimacy.
It will also help promote the basic values which lie at the heart of the European Union.
We very much welcome the way in which you and your President have embraced this particular initiative, and offer you our full support.

The second area which I believe should be a particular priority for us is the development of intercultural relations.
This is absolutely crucial if we are to encourage greater understanding between cultures in the Mediterranean region.
Civil society, local social and regional partners all need to be involved.
The Anna Lindh Foundation has a particularly important role to play in this area.

The Union for the Mediterranean offers us the potential for developing better relations among its members.
Recent events have shown that this is not an easy enterprise, but they have also underlined the importance of our continuing to work to this end.
We are only too aware of the difficulties faced by the populations in the region as a result of the crisis in Gaza.
As you know, this has led to the postponement of meetings of the Union for the Mediterranean, but the Presidency believes that regional cooperation and dialogue is the way to achieve peace, build confidence and create prosperity and we certainly expect to resume work within the Union for the Mediterranean as soon as possible.

Therefore, a dmarche of the Czech EU Presidency and the French Union for the Mediterranean CoPresidency, on behalf of the EU members of the Union for the Mediterranean, possibly together with the Egyptian CoPresidency, addressed to our Arab partners, is just being prepared.
Its purpose is to appeal for a resumption of all Union for the Mediterranean activities automatically and without any conditionality immediately after the League of Arab States Doha Summit at the end of March.
We intend to use the opportunity of the Donor Conference on Gaza, which will be held on  2  March in Sharm elSheikh in Egypt, for further consideration by the three Ministers of Foreign Affairs: Karel Schwarzenberg, the Czech Foreign Minister; Bernard Kouchner, the French Foreign Minister; and the Foreign Minister of Egypt.