This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Helen White:

Mr President, may I begin by saying that I am slightly sad to be speaking on behalf of Mr Elliott who, because of the delay caused by the debate on the situation in Iraq, is unable to be here to present his own resolution.
I regret that shift in the agenda meant that I had to replace him.

I also have to confess I was sorry to miss the press conference given by Mr Mgret, Mr Blot and Mr Le Gallou earlier today explaining their current situation in the Front national .
I am normally against war  civil or otherwise  but I make an exception in that particular case.

With respect to the resolution, I wish to draw Members attention to a number of points.
Firstly, paragraph  1  states the need for the urgent ratification of the Amsterdam Treaty.
Members will be aware that we have a new Article  13  which will allow the Commission, for the first time, to introduce legislation to organise the fight against racism, xenophobia and antisemitism.
However, that can only be done once the Amsterdam Treaty has been ratified.
I hope that the French, who are the latest in ratifying this Treaty, can do so as soon as possible.
I urge them to take the opportunity to introduce legislation prior to  10  June so that the Commission proposals can be part of the debate around the European elections.

I hope that, as stated in paragraph  3 , legislation will incorporate many of the ideas brought forward by the Starting Line Group which has been working on proposed legislation for a number of years.
What we require in the field of fighting racism is detailed and hardhitting legislation.
I do not want the Commission to be frightened by the view, expressed by some, that certain Member States will not accept such legislation and such legislative proposals.
We should not forget that it is only fairly recently that the  15  Member States signed up to Amsterdam and I am convinced that, in signing up to Article  13 , they are agreeing to introduce legislation.

I must also draw the attention of Members to paragraph  10 , which argues that in the next Treaty revision, we should seek to introduce qualified majority voting in this particular area.

Paragraph  4  mentions the idea of a code of conduct for political parties; a code of conduct which makes political parties commit themselves, firstly, not to engage in racism, not to use racist language and not to use racism as part of their political campaigns; and, secondly and equally importantly, not to associate themselves with parties that breach the code of conduct.
It would be very fitting, in the light of Parliaments campaign over the best part of fifteen years for legislation at a European level, for such a code of conduct first to be used by political parties in the runup to the European elections in  1999 .

Paragraph  6  mentions the new European Observatory  the Monitoring Centre set up in Vienna.
Beata Winckler, the Director of that Centre, is actually in the gallery listening to this debate.
I should like to thank her for the work she has already done as the new Director, and the Board of the Observatory, in particular Jean Kahn, who is still recovering from a stroke, for the work they have done in its establishment.
However, I have to say to them that we have high expectations of the Observatory.
We do not expect a dull, desiccated statistical report every year: what we want are reports on what action should be taken at local, regional, national and European levels to fight racism when it arises and to prevent its rise.
We want to use the observatory as a thinktank, to try to make sure that we bring forward the appropriate proposals.

Paragraph  7  mentions a European Network to monitor Racism and Xenophobia.
It is very important that the Observatory uses this.
We do not want them to reinvent the wheel: we want them to draw on the expertise already available in Community groups and other organisations in the  15  Member States of the Union.

Despite introducing Mr Elliotts resolution, I have to say that personally I have some doubts about paragraph  12 , which calls for small local groups to be supported by the Commission.
It is important for small local groups to receive assistance, but maybe on the basis of subsidiarity this should come from regional and national organisations.
The bureaucratic problems of getting the Commission to reach down to small local groups are too difficult to overcome.

Paragraph  15  rightly mentions our demand that the applicant countries are required to guarantee the rights of minorities.
I have to say to the applicant countries that perhaps some of the justice and home affairs issues may be more of a barrier to membership than some of the discussions taking place on agriculture and the Structural Funds.
I think Parliament will be very resistant to allowing in Member States which do not respect the rights of minorities  whether they are ethnic, linguistic or religious  or, for that matter, people who have a different sexual orientation.

Finally, I plead for crossEuropean action at the policing level.
This is important.
I should like to give one example: currently there is a growth of racist music around Europe.
There is a band  if it can be called that  with the name No Remorse, which is short for No remorse for the Holocaust, whose latest CD is called Barbecue in Rostock, celebrating the petrolbombing of immigrant hostels in Germany.
To my shame, it is a British group.
The CDs are produced in Denmark and Sweden and are sold on the streets of Germany and Spain.
If we are to tackle those problems, it is very important to tackle them at European level, because it is clearly a crosscountry problem.

I commend Mr Elliotts resolution to the House.
I hope it will be supported when we vote tomorrow, because it is important that this House maintains the eternal vigilance necessary to ensure that the tragic events of  50  years ago are not repeated in the future.