This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Annette Bauer:

Mr President, I want to offer my warmest welcome to Chancellor Schroeder who is here on behalf of the German presidency.
I thank him very sincerely for what I consider to be one of the finest statements I have heard in Parliament from a PresidentinOffice for a considerable period of time.
I thank him for what he said in relation to the crisis in Kosovo.
Parliament, by its applause, has shown its satisfaction with that statement.
I would also sincerely thank him for the Berlin Resolution in this area.

I know the PresidentinOffice is having a meeting this afternoon with Heads of State and Government and it is important that during this discussion he convey to his colleagues that it is of the utmost urgency that the relief effort to help Kosovar Albanians continues and that the European Union play a leading role in the humanitarian aid mission.
Financial resources must be made available to ensure that the relief programmes continue and that appropriate medicinal and food supplies reach the refugees in need.

We would have hoped that as this millennium ends we would have left the spectre of war in Europe behind us.
Sadly, the totalitarian despot, Mr Milosevic, is fuelling the flames of genocide and compounding the misery of the Kosovar Albanians.
I very much hold the view that there should be no escape for Mr Milosevic and that at some stage he must face the charges of war crimes in a court of law.

I have one negative point to say to Chancellor Schroeder.
I believe that you are genuine in your expression of appreciation of the role of the European Parliament.
But your credibility is somewhat questioned by the fact that our President, Mr GilRobles, is not invited to the meeting this afternoon.
I regret that.
It is a mistake that has happened somewhere along the line and even at this late stage I feel you should reconsider it.
It is a bad mistake and gives a wrong signal.

I would like to say a special word of thanks and appreciation to Mr Santer for the magnificent work he has done for the European Union for the last fourandahalf years.
I thank him very sincerely for what he has contributed, and also his colleagues in the Commission.
I very much regret that he is the victim of circumstances at this particular time.
You have my full respect, President Santer, and my appreciation for what you have done for Europe during your term of office.

The Berlin Summit of  25  March was a good summit.
It achieved a lot in terms of finalising the overall financial parameters for spending within the EU for the sevenyear period after  1999 .
Ever since the Agenda  2000  proposals for reform of the Union policies were first published in March  1998  it was always felt in some quarters that it would be difficult to find an agreement that was balanced and evenhanded across all the territories of the European Union.
The German presidency can take solace from the fact that the spending parameters for the budget for the Union for the period  20002006  commands the confidence and the good will of all the Member States of the European Union.

The budget totals of  506 bn will put in place various programmes to lay the foundation for the impending enlargement of the European Union itself.
Equally, it will ensure that the common agricultural policy will be properly financed and that many social and regional aid schemes will continue for the poorer Member States of the Union after  1999 .

I should like to deal with some aspects of the common agricultural policy for the moment.
It was suggested in a document entitled The future financing of the European Union, issued by the Commission before Christmas, that possibly  25   of the CAP should be financed by the national exchequers of individual Member States.
This would have been a regressive step for the European Union to have taken.
It would have been a very divisive move because one of the successful aspects of the CAP is the fact that it is administered in a uniform manner across all the territories of the European Union.
Renationalising part of the CAP could only have led to the ultimate disintegration and fragmentation of the common agricultural policy itself.

Finally, I should like to say to Chancellor Schroeder: you got off to a reasonably weak start in your presidency; you have made tremendous progress in recent times.
There are still a lot of important items on the agenda for completion by the end of your presidency.
I congratulate you on the progress you are making to date.
You are twothirds of the way to the winning post.
We want to see you put in greater effort between now and the end of June.