This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Philip Merx:

Mr President, in deference to the Commissioner here present I shall seek to avoid any reference to wind farms in or from Wales.
First of all let me pay tribute to the Commission for its communication which has prompted this report.
It has produced an excellent analysis of gas supply in Europe and we in the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy have had to think hard to make some constructive suggestions and additions.
Mindful of the gas directive to come, the essence of this report is that gas supply and consumption in Europe have increased dramatically both in absolute terms and relative to other sources of energy, yet we still produce over  60   of our needs within the EU with two Member States  the Netherlands and the UK  dominating output.
One factor in this increased consumption has been the withdrawal of the EC directive which prohibited the use of gas for power generation up until  1991 .
This, combined with opening up the markets for electricity in some Member States and new more efficient combined cycle gas turbine technology, has brought about a rapid change.

We are dependent on three third countries for the  3839   that we import, Russia, Algeria and Norway supplying respectively  51 . 8  ,  24 . 1   and  23 . 9   of our imports in  1994 .
Some people feel that our increasing dependence on imports makes us more vulnerable to interruptions of supply.
This report calls for more detailed risk analysis of this possibility due to political considerations, but I think it more likely that problems could arise through physical interruption by pipeline failure and the report calls also for research into cooperative projects to reduce pipeline leakage in third countries.
When contemplating possible risks of political decisions in third countries to cut off supplies we must consider what these countries could stand to gain from such action and remember that the underlying ethos of the EU is to promote trade between Member States, to integrate our economies and thereby discourage the possibility we might fall out and fight among ourselves as we did in the past.
So far this approach is an outstanding success so why should we not employ the same policy in our trading relations with our neighbours?
I think the answer to my question is, do nothing, because these countries gain much more in hard currency and other trade from their sales of gas to EU Member States than they could afford to lose by cutting off the supply.

There are measures which would strengthen our ties with these countries and the security of our supplies of gas.
First we must conclude the Energy Charter, which provides the legal framework for this trade.
Second we must press ahead with the proposals for interconnector schemes which will create a true internal market in gas supply.
TransEuropean networks provide both for a physical link and the means of introducing market mechanisms which underpin security of supply and offer the promise of better competition and service to consumers.
There are concerns about security of supply which arise from concerns about the philosophy of liberalization and competition more than from worries about the politics of third countries.
It is ironic that some should be more frightened of the benign forces of competition and free markets than by external fundamentalism or ancient rivalries.
I think we should be encouraged by the changes in the UK for example, not frightened.

In my constituency in South West England, consumers are enjoying the cost benefits of the structural changes made in the electricity supply industry, amounting to a  20   reduction in prices in real terms after allowing for inflation.
Since the industry was privatised we have yet to see the full benefit of open competition for all consumers.
This is due in  1998  when the market will be liberalized completely, but right now gas consumers in my constituency are part of the very first pilot scheme anywhere in the EU, where full and open competition for gas applies.
Since April this year gas suppliers have been free to compete, to offer their service to all consumers.
Significantly  1516   of consumers have changed supplier, the others are watching to see if the promised price cuts are delivered.
That is sensible.
But the main point is people have the choice and we will be able to see whether the prophets of doom will be proved right or wrong.
I believe they will be wrong and that is why we have reintroduced certain parts of the text from the draft report because we should take note of these developments.

Finally the report calls for a review of our dependency on gas when it reaches a nominal share of energy supply of  25  .
It calls for alternative sources of supply and alternative technologies to be researched and made available as a prudent precautionary measure which, however  in the light of the record of the industry in Europe in maintaining security of supply  so far seems a remote possibility.
This communication and report are important in the runup to the gas directive which we hope will follow close behind the electricity directive.
I commend the report to the House.