This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Michael Bauer:

Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group.
The first thing I want to do is to congratulate the two rapporteurs.
Mr Tillich has been extremely kind in the way he has conducted his negotiations with the various groups and taken on board a lot of the suggestions, and Mr Tomlinson has done his usual exemplary work.

I have to say that the Tillich report is far too long, but that is not the fault of the rapporteur.
Here we have a document which is a statement of our main priorities ahead of the Commissions PDB.
It is not a resolution for the first reading, which a lot of people seem to think it is.
However, when you have  135  amendments and  11  committees giving an input into that guideline you are bound to end up with something far more than the short, succinct document we all wanted.

You will notice that the text does not refer to an austerity budget, as it did last year.
Nor does it explicitly state that the Parliament is prepared to help reduce expenditure.
The reason is quite simple: last year Parliament went along with such a strategy in the hope that the Council would reciprocate by helping us solve some of the problems we have to live with, such as the problems of a legal base on a lot of the lines, and the problem of getting an agreement on classification and expenditure, to name but two.

Our group is not prepared to go down that route again.
We are prepared to play our part in Parliament in getting the best budget we think is achievable and we are prepared to do that in good faith with the Council.
We have to hope we will see the same good faith displayed by the Council.
I say that because when you see our amendment to paragraph  3  you will understand our concerns.

The same feeling is displayed in paragraph  4  of the rapporteurs guidelines where we expect the normal dialogue we have with the Council to be improved.
Mr Tomlinson said that when we go to the trialogue meetings to see the Council, it is a dialogue with the deaf.
It is always the same procedure, whereby we make our points clear and the Council fails to respond.
We have to hope that the experience over the past years with the Budget Council will now cease and that we will get a genuine dialogue in its place this time with the Ecofin Council.
As Mr Tomlinson said, it is a pity that there is no one here from the Council to hear that.

I said that the guideline document was too long.
It could have been made a lot more precise, and it could have been very concise by just consisting of paragraph  5 (a).
If we had said paragraph  5 (a) we would have covered a lot of our priorities in one sentence, because that priority talks about combating unemployment.
Parliaments budget should reflect Parliaments political priorities.
The political priorities of my group are centred around job creation.
It is job creation policies that we will support above all else.
That is a message we want to get through to the Commission and to the Council for both the PDB and the draft budget.

I will now turn to the various categories.
If the Council had been here I would have addressed the following point to it directly, and I hope the message gets back to it.
If the ad hoc procedure which we talk about at length is to be adhered to, and if it is to be meaningful, we expect the Council to be honest about it.
We want it to be honest with us and to say that it thinks it is a procedure that Council and Parliament have to go through to come to a conclusion about agricultural expenditure and the problems that exist therein.
If it is going to go through the routine that it has gone through the last two years, which in the main is just a charade of going through the motions, knowing full well that at the end there will be no real conclusions, it should say so now.
If it did so it would save everybody a lot of time.
It would save us time, it would save our effort and we would not be making fools of ourselves by going through this joke of a procedure  which in my view is what it has been over the last two years.
Therefore, I would hope that the Council can take it far more seriously and I hope the Commission will relay that to the Council.

While we are talking about Category  1 , I would say to the rapporteur that my group will be supporting Amendment No  11  tabled by Mr Rehder and others.
However, there is a mistake in it and I would ask the services to correct it.
It should have been tabled as an extra paragraph  10 (a) new, rather than replacing paragraph  9 .
With that correction, our group will support it.

On Category  2 , our group has no plans to follow Parliaments action of last year which we voted against when ECU  1  billion in payments was removed from the structural funds.
However, we are concerned about the problem of the gap between commitments and payments which is not helping job creation.
It may well be the fault of the Member States, but we have to make it abundantly clear to those who are concerned about this that if we want to create cohesion, prosperity and jobs, the structural funds should be utilized to their fullest.
We support paragraph  13 .
It is only a pity that we need to be saying something like this within the guidelines.

On Category  3  our group has, as in the past, seen TENs and research and development as essential vehicles for future job creation, as it does when we give help to SMEs.
Our amendment to paragraph  21  is to indicate that we are not simply talking about certain types of road when we talk about transEuropean networks; and the amendment to paragraph  22  is to clarify the position of the ECU  200 m for research and development.
Also in Category  3 , not just under big programmes but on those smaller lines which Parliament considers to be priorities, such as youth, education and culture, we will also be giving our full support.

On external action, the Commission really does have to take heed of paragraphs  27  and  28 .
Let me add:  We aint joking when we talk about PHARE and TACIS.
We expect something far more concrete from the PDB.
In our debates in the Committee on Budgets we have made it quite clear that the present objectives for PHARE cannot be continued, and the key words should be preaccession strategy .
On Category  5  the text is quite explicit and I do not have to say anything on it.

Finally, on the Tomlinson report, you will see that it is extremely well prepared.
Mr Tomlinson has involved as many people as possible.
There is only one amendment in the plenary and I think that says it all.

I would like to thank our own SecretaryGeneral and the DirectorGeneral for Personnel and Finance for taking part in this debate, for being part of this gathering tonight and for showing such an interest in these guidelines.
It is a darn sight more than can be said for the Council.

(Applause )